hey
good morning good afternoon good evening
no matter where you're coming from hope
you all are doing well
welcome
back to the best week
ever
we're continuing it folks tonight
our lovely class is sponsored by
microsoft azure and they're coming
through big for us coming through big
now microsoft has been a long time
sponsor of the stream the very first
time we did this get in github class
they came through and they sponsored it
for us well guess what they're coming
back they're doing it again
they're coming back with some swag
they're coming back with us having the
ability to raffle off some amazing stuff
so we're gonna have a lot of fun tonight
we're gonna learn the basics of git and
github from an actual beginner
standpoint i feel like there's a lot of
stuff out there when it comes to getting
github that if it's your first time
dabbling in it it can be really
overwhelming cause a lot of stress but
we're gonna show how git can be a tool
that you can use every single day that's
gonna make your life a lot easier that i
think actually removes some of the fear
of trying out new code and so we're
gonna have some fun we're also gonna
learn a lot of cool stuff and a huge
huge huge thank you uh to microsoft
azure for sponsoring this
stream
get in here folks it's gonna be a good
one bangers only
uh so for folks that are new around
these parts specifically since this
class will be shared outside of our 100
devs community my name is leon i am the
managing director of engineering for a
non-profit called resilient coders it's
my job to help folks get jobs as
software engineers and help them get the
skills that they need to become software
engineers and what you are watching
right now
is a hundred devs a free 30-week
software engineering bootcamp that we
run on tuesday thursdays
sundays and during the best week ever
every single day of this week and the
goal is to take you from maybe never
having touch code before having
everything that you need to be employed
we got a lot of folks showing out
already hey thank you so much for
everybody being here
uh thank you so much to the all the
gifted subs and things like that so far
uh rufio with the raid 88 folks coming
in through you're doing some cold wars
love to see it newest member of the
stream team folks we were saying that
700 people yesterday
in that stream going through some cold
wars and they were doing some code wars
today right before this stream thank you
for the raid
we had some uh some some gifted subs
hey thank you for the five gifted subs
global crisis thank you for the five
good subs thank you all for being here
so
free
software engineering boot camp you can
go from never having touched code before
to all the way to employed and the
beautiful thing is right now is the best
week ever
and the reason why it is the best week
ever is because we started 100 devs with
the goal of getting a hundred folks
software engineering jobs during the
pandemic and we blew through it
we're way past our 100 jobs now and so
this week has been a celebration and
microsoft has come back to sponsor uh
making this even more the best week ever
so tonight we're going to
well at least i'm gonna shoot my shot
i feel like if you're watching this
maybe on microsoft's channel
hey indifferent goes thank you for the
10 gifted subs thank you for being here
i appreciate you
if you're here and you're not currently
part of 100 devs i would encourage you
to come check us out come hang out with
us come on come learn how to code but if
you walk away with nothing i'm going to
shoot my shot i want i want you to learn
how to learn and so we're going to start
off this stream not with git not with
the terminal not with github but with
learning how to learn it's something
that's changed my life that's changed
the lives a lot of my students and so i
want that same thing for you so we're
going to talk about how to learn so if
you're starting your coding journey and
you're learning git as part of that new
part of your coding journey please if
you only listen to two things i say
tonight one
make sure you have a github account and
then two make sure you learn how to
learn
it will really honestly change your life
when it comes to learning how to code
then we're gonna break down what the
heck is this terminal thing when first
people start hearing about the terminal
it's weird you try and open it maybe you
have a terminal already on your computer
and it doesn't make sense it's just text
it's blinking what is going on we're
gonna talk about all of that
we are gonna learn uh the basics of git
and then we're gonna show how to use
github along with git to do some really
cool stuff
we got a lot of fun though mixed in
between
for every single thing we learn once we
start to feel like we're pushing a
little bit things are getting a little
hard we're going to stop with a raffle
so
every hard concept we learn we end up
with a raffle and we got a lot of cool
stuff to give away microsoft has come
through uh with eight sets of swag
and so that swag that microsoft has
provided is for folks that are in the us
but i am matching that swag uh so you
get a learn with leon swag pack that is
open to anyone else in the world and i
will ship it anywhere
and i mean anywhere uh we we we sent
some merch last last year to some far
away places and some of it got there
some of it got returned but we'll shoot
our shot we'll try i don't care where
you are we'll put it in the mail we'll
cross our fingers and hopefully it'll
get there so we got 16 swag raffles to
get through
which is wild
and then we're also
i don't know if i told you i mean we
mentioned it
but we got we got two laptops to raffle
one will be raffled tonight at the end
and uh one will be raffled next tuesday
which will be our
best week ever last class so
one laptop tonight one laptop on tuesday
if you want to be entered into
these raffles all you have to do is be
here on stream i will show you how to do
it when the time comes and then we'll
talk a little bit more about the laptop
raffles as we get through it but
folks hold on
you gotta see it
you gotta see it it's beautiful you
gotta see this laptop folks we're
talking about the surface laptop go i
don't know if you've seen this before
but this is a beautiful beautiful laptop
sleek
all-day battery life
lightweight
beautiful colors
runs all your favorites apps look at it
just look at it
microsoft out did themselves
and so uh we're giving one of these away
tonight and then another one on tuesday
thank you to microsoft for making all of
this
possible
alrighty so
we also have to start off with some
questions and i have a question for
everyone that's here tonight i know we
pulled in some folks that are not
normally part of the 100 devs crew but i
have a question for you all have you all
ever used a terminal before if you use
the terminal say yes if you haven't used
the terminal say no i want to say yes or
no in the chat for me
some folks did the homework so there
should be a lot of yeses now maybe if i
asked this a week ago it would have been
no but
we got a lot of yeses we got some new
folks with the notes that's all right
layered cake hey thank you for the vodka
that subs appreciate you for being here
thank you
all right all right i see y'all we got a
good mix here
we got a good mix
a lot of yeses a few no's and so what
i'm gonna say from the very beginning is
that this class
is for folks that have never used the
terminal you know you don't even know
what the heck i'm talking about that's
okay
it's for folks that thought i've been
saying get g-e-t this whole time and not
git this whole time so if you're
interested in learning about the
terminal you're interested in learning
about git and you want to use these
tools to aid your software engineering
journey this class is for you we're
starting all the way from the very very
beginning uh we're gonna just cover the
basics tonight if you get stuck if
things don't make sense definitely
ask questions here in chat but we also
have office hours every saturday
this specific saturday coming up today
is march 31st then
the year 2022
this sunday we'll be having office hours
but we have office hours every sunday at
1 pm eastern time so tonight
don't stress about having to have
everything set up and perfectly running
if you can't get things set up and
running it's okay just pay attention to
the commands understand ask good
questions and then anything that doesn't
make sense we'll cover in office hours
as well
i'm going to ask for the folks that are
here if you can go ahead and check in
for me if you need the check-in link you
can do exclamation point check-in here
in chat it'll take you to the tweet
microsoft
we want we want to show them some love
on twitter right let's show microsoft
some love on twitter they came through
they they put up all this swag for us uh
let's show them a little love on twitter
uh let them see
the the fruit of their support of new
developers in tech all right
as our continuation of the best week
ever goes on we had our first stream of
the best week ever on tuesday then we
had rufio's first stream as part of the
stream team
yesterday 700 people
hanging out doing some code wars i saw
88 folks in the raid that's wild that's
wild roofio roofio rufio tonight we have
the sponsored stream
tomorrow friday 6 pm eastern time on
discord we have our first friday with
friends and we have an amazing guest
it's someone that's been a long time
supporter of the hundred devs community
uh it's someone that is up in our
discord answering questions that has had
an amazing journey of their development
career as well so we'll we'll announce
the the the first friday with friends
uh
we'll announce it later we're
we're not going to announce it right now
we'll announce it well now it's a little
bit a little bit later whereas a little
bit later uh but trust me it's not
something you want to miss these friday
with friends sessions we're going to put
a lot of effort into them to make sure
that you learn and pick up some really
amazing tips from folks that are already
in the field that have gone through a
similar
journey so if you want to hear from
folks that are
crushing it in the game but we're just
where you were just a few years ago come
on through friday with friends first one
tomorrow 6 p.m on discord it'll be a
discord event kind of like similar to a
twitter space but on discord
alrighty
since microsoft azure is sponsoring
uh since microsoft azure is sponsoring
they've asked us to agree to their code
of conduct so they have some some rules
for their virtual events those rules are
not any really different than our 100
devs rules so if you've been here you've
been a part of 100 devs you're following
the same rules if you want to check out
their rules though you can do
exclamation point github coc to get
their code of conduct as well that that
link will go up in chat uh all it is is
be excellent to each other and let's
have a good time you'll also notice that
when i go to this lovely stream
chat's not there
and that's because this will be shared
across a whole bunch of other channels
that's not our own and things like our
our our lovely lovely emotes don't make
sense
and we don't want any of you walling out
so that that chat will be missing for
tonight it'll come back on sunday uh but
as a general rule be excellent to each
other we don't really have a problem
with that here at 100 devs uh but just
wanted to make sure that you were aware
of what was going on
alrighty
now before i shoot my shot
if you're watching this and you're not
part of 100 devs and maybe you are
[Music]
interested in a career in tech maybe as
a software engineer
because you've heard that software
engineers make good money
maybe you heard that it's been one of
the happiest careers for the past five
years running
maybe you heard that you don't need a
degree a degree you can learn it for
free and heck there might even be a
slide in your office all these things
are true
i've been teaching folks how to code for
the past 10 years
for the past five years i've really
focused on helping folks specifically
people of color get jobs in
software engineering and it is right now
the best time i have ever seen for folks
to get their first role as a software
engineer now there's a lot of kind of
reasons why that's happening right now
but the beauty of it is that we can take
advantage of that and you can go from
zero skills to employed as a software
engineer without paying any money to
learn these skills you can do it here
with us for free or there are so many
other amazing resources too that you
could use free code camp the odin
project you want a live wonderful
community we have 100 devs with us as
well
but
i want you to know that it's possible
that we've helped a hundred plus folks
as part of the hundred devs unlock this
career to have this happy career to have
this life-changing event happen and you
can do it you can do it for free um
but
most folks don't realize
how long
they have to go through what we like to
call the trough of sorrow before they
make it to that wonderful opportunity
and this is why
we still have a a a
a huge demand for software engineers
that has not been filled
it's why a lot of folks that start on
this journey might not make it through
and it is a process
that takes a long time
i think a lot of folks come into the
idea of becoming a software engineer and
they see the they see all the ads on
youtube saying 12 weeks that's that's no
no
it takes a while
it takes a while to to to to to tread
through the muck
and to go through this trough of sorrow
your your wits will be tested your
frustration will be tested
you will doubt yourself maybe this whole
way through and this trophistar is what
stops a lot of folks through making it
to that promised land at the end
so there are three things that i have
seen that have helped my students make
it through this trough of sorrow to go
from i really want to be a software
engineer to employed as a software
engineer to
as that that wearing off of the the the
initial rush of wanting to learn once
that's fully worn off you're deep in
javascript and things aren't making
sense it's these three things that have
held true for most of my students to
make it through they've learned to
manage their frustration they've learned
to be consistent and they've learned how
to take care of themselves there was a
study that that was done that was asking
folks
when do we lose the ability to be fluent
in a language like what age
and what they found
what they found
was that it wasn't really that as we got
older we lost the ability to be fluent
in a language it's just that as we got
older more things were in our
control
and once more things were in our control
we actually get more and more frustrated
with a learning journey so if you want
to learn how to code the first thing you
have to realize is that
engineers
solve problems
that may not have been solved before but
every day is a challenge
every day is waking up rolling out of
bed putting your fingers on the keyboard
and trying to do something that at first
will probably be very frustrating
because there might not be a clear path
to it
so while you're learning the code if you
can start to find the joy in it the fun
in the problem solving
trusting the the the the journey and
really focusing on your process and not
the product if you can do that if you
can find that that joy
and
banging your head against the keyboard
for a long period of time just to
finally figure it out and have that
euphoric moment
if you can figure out how to do that
you're gonna make it through the trough
of sorrow
the other thing too that makes the
frustration come down a little bit right
that helps with this frustration level
that you have to that you have to
conquer is this ability to be consistent
most folks when they start out trying to
learn how to code they say you know what
lena i'm going to study all saturday
well guess what you missed a saturday
you missed the next saturday you don't
actually learn how to code there are
also some very important tips about how
our brain works and how we learn that
requires you to be consistent every day
and so most of my students i asked to
see if you can block off two hours a day
to be consistent to do the things that
you need to do to continue that learning
but if you're chunking on just one day a
week or two days a week it's probably
not going to work out that well it's not
consistent enough you'll skip some days
and then you'll be in a deeper trough of
sorrow than when you start it
the last bit is you have to understand
you have to take care of yourself
learning dakota's a marathon not a
sprint
every time i run a boot camp a portion
of my students wind up going to the
hospital they don't take care of their
fingers they don't take care of their
hands they don't take breaks at the top
of the hour they don't use
tips and techniques like pomodoro to
build in break time
learning to code is stressful not only
on your brain but also in your body also
in your eyes you have to be doing things
that take care of yourself or else
you're going to burn out and not make it
to the end if you can manage your
frustration you can be consistent you
can take care of yourself you can learn
how to code i've seen folks from all
walks of life i have returning citizens
that haven't touched the keyboard in
five years to folks that have children
to anything you could think of
as a barrier i've seen them learn how to
code it has nothing to do
with your aptitude or your ability to
be good at math or anything like that
the folks that learn how to code banish
their frustration they don't give up
they're consistent and they take care of
themselves
you can figure out those three things
you can be a software engineer now
if you listen to nothing else
from me right
and i say if you don't listen anything
else from me because don't let me the
person that gets in the way of your
dreams and don't let your dreams be
dreams right get out there achieve what
you want to achieve
but
hopefully
i can give you two two words of wisdom
if if you don't listen to anything else
i have to say if you leave before we get
to get or github please
embody these two things before you leave
active recall
and space repetition
space repetition
active recall is this idea that after
you learn something you literally talk
out loud about the thing that you just
learned
i have a lovely duck
on my
on my table that i talk to every single
time i learn something new my duck knows
about it and then you'll meet bob who i
talk to as well when the topics are
really difficult
there was a lot of research that's gone
on to this but there was one really
interesting study
where a group
had to learn let's say we'll say a
chapter of a textbook
one group re-read the chapter four times
one group read the chapter
and then actively recalled talked out
loud about the stuff that they had just
learned
the group that actively recalled did
better than the group that read it four
times
what
could you imagine doing something that
you put in a
a quarter a quarter of the effort and
get better results that's what i'm
talking about folks there are actual
strategies that you can put into place
when it comes to learning that if you're
not doing them
you're doing four times the amount of
work
the other really important thing is this
idea of our forgetting curve now this
was a study of one it's been replicated
in some other ways but the idea here is
that this person what they did is they
tried to remember a
three letter
combination
you could say like x c d right you get a
three letter combination
what they found is that just 20 minutes
later
there is about a 40
chance
that they had forgotten those three
letters
and by the end of 31 days there was
about an 80 chance
right
80 chance
that they have forgotten everything
so if you're committing to a learning
journey
if you're committing to an idea
of learning how to code which is a
cumulative career
and there's about an eighty percent
chance you're going to forget stuff in a
month let me see how that can be a a
fool's errand right and so how do we get
over this how do we stop this forgetting
of all the things that we're putting so
much effort and being consistent to
learn well you can reset your forgetting
curve you can actually flatten your
forgetting curve so that eventually over
time you don't forget anything and the
way we do this is through spaced
repetition
all space repetition is is that you are
reviewing
the things that you learned over time
and while you may have forgotten certain
things in in three days you review it
again it goes out to seven you view it
again it goes out to like 20 you read
again and eventually
this review curve flattens and you just
don't forget anything and so here we all
use a tool called anki a-n-k-i it's
completely free tool uh completely free
on on
pc completely free uh in the browser and
so you can use this tool called anki
which is like flash cards with an
algorithm behind them to help you never
forget stuff so
my students that
use active recall and spaced repetition
they literally do not forget stuff they
can actually learn the fact that these
two things are not in the front of every
textbook that you have ever used is a
crime
now ali abdull has a wonderful video
where you can watch them talk through
the science behind active recall and
space repetition and there's also one
other course i really recommend it's dr
barbara oakley's coursera course called
learning how to learn all these
resources are free i never share any
resources that are not free with 100
devs and so
if you are
starting your engineering journey or
you're learning how to code or you're
coming to this video
because you're trying to learn git and
github
trust me
please
just try it the active recall space
repetition you'll be surprised how much
more you can learn how much more you can
retain and the things that will stick
for the long run
cool
now the last bit that makes the trough
of sorrow really really hard that makes
learning how to code really hard that
makes learning get for the first time
really really hard
is that some folks do it alone
you don't have to do that anymore
you can join
an amazing community of individuals how
many folks we have here right now
we have over 3 000 people here right now
that are all learning to code together
our discord community is 29 000 strong
every question that people ask it's
answered we have amazing folks going
through our current cohort we have
amazing alumni we have amazing folks
mentors that give up their time to
support folks that are part of this 100
devs community you don't have to learn
alone
i see in chat a lot of folks saying that
they'll help you carry the boats and the
logs because that's true
you don't have to learn this alone you
don't have to learn how to code alone
come join a really passionate welcoming
community of folks that want to see you
be successful as well so you can always
go to the underworld.com 100 devs or if
you're ever here on twitch.noel.com
twitch you can use that exclamation
point 100 devs that'll give you the link
to our discord come through agree to the
rules and you'll find
an amazing supportive community where
you can get your questions answered
specifically questions about git when
you're first setting up git it can be
pretty difficult the first few times you
try to actually put it in the into
action you might come across some weird
errors come ask questions about those
errors we'll be happy to help
and uh yeah shout out catch up crew i
see you all in the chat you don't have
to join us live you can also all of our
classes get put on youtube so you can
always watch at your own pace join the
discord community join our catch-up crew
continue at your own pace and get the
same support as well
cool
i had to shoot my shot right folks we
got to do it
we got to do it right if this is all
they ever see
that's what we need them to know all
right folks
microsoft
azure
thank you so much for
supporting this community
time and time again
literally helping to make this be the
best week ever
to
make changes consistently that support
early career developers uh folks if you
don't know they microsoft acquired
github
and for a long time github their private
repos
were not free you had to pay to have
private repos and i think when you're a
new developer there's always kind of
that little bit of apprehension before
you kind of throw caution to the wind
where you don't want your code public to
everyone and so for a long time you had
to pay
now you don't private repos are free
folks and so i think microsoft is
committed to making the experience of
early career developers the best it can
be whether we're using the text editors
that we use like vs code whether we're
using git and github or we're using any
of the amazing services that azure
provides they consistently show out not
only for 100 devs in our community but
every other
engineer that's kind of earlier in their
career they really do make it a more
inviting space so microsoft azure thank
you so much for sponsoring thank you so
much for offering up the swag but also
building tools and systems that help
support everyone that's here tonight
everybody
let's get it on now before we get it on
we have our first raffle of the evening
now this raffle uh was for
folks that uh you know how we do the
folks that open the newsletter before
class
so you can always do exclamation point
newsletter here in chat if you're not
assigned to the newsletter you should
you should sign up to the newsletter all
the good stuff happens in the newsletter
first and so for the folks that opened
the newsletter before class i went and
grabbed all the individuals that had
filled out the secret form in the
newsletter
and i threw all your names into a random
picker so fifteen hundred of you uh
filled out that form before class
started gigan's world hey thank you so
much for the uh
for for the five gifts of subs i
appreciate you and we had some folks
come in uh devmin 90. thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
ldvel oh no i will get to your pokemon
card i see you
and sp burton thank you for the posture
check i'll get there in a second
wow get my posture ticket real quick and
we just started i feel pretty good
all right
so
these are for folks that
went into the newsletter before class
started filled out that form uh whoever
wins this raffle uh will get a learn
with leon swag package so uh
in the learn with leon swag package we
have a lot of really cool stuff
little bits of merch that you can't
really get anywhere else cool stickers a
bunch of other fun stuff and i'll ship
it anywhere in the world so
whoever wins uh you're getting a swag
package
anyone that wins this evening if you win
anything this evening i will send you a
whisper here on twitch
it's just way easier because we're doing
so many raffles tonight that i will send
you a whisper here on twitch uh with
instructions on how to redeem your prize
that way i don't have to worry about
anything no flooding of mod mail or
anything like that
if you win something tonight
you will get a message from me on twitch
this weekend so give me until end of the
weekend to get you the message and
everything set up and sent to you but
you'll get a whisper from me here on
twitch cool all right let's pick the
random winner
i am ghost hey congrats i am ghost uh
you have won the first
swag of the evening the learn with leon
swag package is coming from you uh paste
open the newsletter folks that's all i
got to say
let me go ahead and write these down
over here just so i have them all
beautiful
awesome
alrighty
let's continue with this evening folks
let's uh shall we say
get it on
now
before we jump into git
we have to start with something called
the terminal and whenever folks first
learn about the terminal or they decide
that they're going to start using the
terminal
it can be a really confusing space to be
in
there's so many weird words weird terms
that come up terminal bash get bash unix
shell cli cmd
it it's a little it's a little much
and i find
there's really not that many great
places that just start from the
beginning and say kind of let's just put
all that to the side for now
uh we're gonna start from the very very
beginning and by the end of this night
you'll understand some of these
terminologies and and it'll make a
little bit more sense but i really love
this this gif because i never remember
like back in the day trying to figure
out the terminal i still i mean there's
still today so much stuff i don't know
about the terminal but i remember trying
to figure it all out
and feeling like charlie in this gif
where i'm trying to connect all these
dots all these all these weird names
don't make any sense and it's all coming
through uh the other favorite thing i
like about this gif is uh i actually
think i mentioned this last class but um
this pepe sylvia they never actually
really say what pepe silvia was
but there's a lot of people that believe
that pepe sylvia was charlie reading the
envelopes that said pennsylvania
and not knowing what how to pronounce
pennsylvania and so pepe sylvia is uh is
probably pennsylvania yeah
yeah that that's my head cannon
cool
now
i love this gif i this this image i i
wish i could make out the person so i
could give them credit um but this is
this is something we brought up in class
the other day and i just love that get
is on here because there are so many of
these
random names and terms that come up when
you're learning how to code and i love
this because this is um this person said
i typically ask recruiters to point out
which of these are pokemon and it's
really hard even if you've been coding
for a while there are some here or if
you even know pokemon for a while
there's something they're like
i'm not really sure but i love that get
has made it onto this list and i can
tell you all this evening that git is
indeed not a pokemon it is a tool that
we will be using for the rest of our
engineering careers it's something that
we'll use every day going forward and
it's something that is extremely
powerful and will make your life
phenomenally
uh better
cool
so
whenever you hear the word terminal
i don't want it to
cause fear or panic whenever the word
terminal all i want you to think of is a
place where you can type commands
that cause
actions
a place where you can type commands
that cause actions and we're gonna see a
lot of different actions tonight we're
gonna see a lot of different commands
tonight but just a place where we can
type stuff and things happen
that's it
cool
so way back in the day if you bought an
apple ii which was one of the kind of
early computing systems that made it big
and
was where a lot of folks kind of started
a computing journey
you paid all this money for an apple ii
i know it was it was expensive it was
not cheap uh in today's dollars the base
model of the apple ii uh was around five
grand
and in today's dollar like the top of
the line spec for the apple ii
was a thousand
sorry no eleven thousand dollars
so base back five g's
top spec 11 g's you took it home
you turned it on
and all you got
was this
you got that well so the cool thing is
what it gave you
was access
to a command line
or a cli a command line interface and so
you turned on this apple ii computer
right you turned on this beast
and instead of getting a gui
or a graphical user interface you got a
command line interface
which is a place where you could type
commands or
access utilities which is programs on
the computer uh directly from by text
there was no gui that we could move
around there were no folders that we
could drag and drop
you had a cli as opposed to a gui or a
graphical user interface
and so you spent five grand you bought
it home let's see if i can refresh this
real quick you brought it home
and um this is what you got
and there was no internet to figure
stuff out
you could you could have like this thick
manual that you could go through to
figure it out uh maybe you would
eventually find like a user group that
you could go to like like a meet up to
like figure out and exchange floppy
disks um but you you kind of let's like
power cycle it right like you could you
could turn it on and there would be a
place to like actually start typing
that's it
no gui
no folders
no anything
but this was a beast though this this
had color folks and you could actually
open up individual programs right you
could you could go to your your yeah
your your swap fest right you could you
could you could take your your your
floppy and exchange it for other
floppies and there was actually some
cool stuff that you could do
hey thank you for the five gifted subs
and so here's here's one it's like a
personal there's like a christmas card
you can open it up
and there we go
[Laughter]
like beautiful like full color
right
merry christmas like you could do some
cool stuff
with it
but
what you noticed look at this this is
next level
right so from the
command line interface
you had no gui from the command line
interface you could run commands you
could run utilities and you could still
do some pretty cool stuff
it was just a very different experience
and so
this
command line interface
or eventually we'll call it the
terminals where we access this command
line interface it's still alive well
today so when you were on the apple ii
if you wanted to move around your files
and your folders and you wanted to get
access to stuff
you used that cli to to
access those files to access those
folders to get the things that you want
it without having to click around on a
bunch of stuff and so this still is
alive and well
we can look at a terminal
that i have on my machine right here in
this bottom right hand corner this is my
terminal and i can still move around i
can still write commands i can still
kind of move into folders right it could
still
grab all the things i want on my
computer i could still run fun games
maybe christmas cards like we just saw
all from this lovely command line
interface now
i'm gonna walk you through some common
commands
and then i'm gonna show you kind of how
to get this working on your own machine
in the materials before class i i kind
of shared some things where you could
get this started
if you are on macos or a flavor of gnu
linux
you probably already have a program
on your computer called terminal which
will give you access to this lovely
command line interface that you see here
on the right side of my screen
if for some reason you are
on
a mac os system or a new linux system
that doesn't have it you're going to
have to install it and then if you're on
windows
i
would recommend get bash for this
evening
now
windows comes with the command prompt
which is a slightly different
system than what we're going to be using
tonight the commands are a little bit
different so i actually recommend get
bash to start and then eventually you
want to look at something called wsl or
the windows subsystem for linux and what
it does is it enables you to
have this like we call it a unixy
environment on windows and so
tonight get bash
that's where you would that's why i
recommend you start uh you'll have a
chance to install if you didn't have a
chance to stall it yet
and for the beginning don't worry about
typing in the commands watch them along
with me see how i'm doing things and
then we'll have a time we'll give you a
little bit time to install the things if
you need it installed okay so if you're
on windows i recommend git bash for this
evening
[Music]
if you're on mac os or gnu linux you
probably have a program called terminal
you could open up and that you could
follow along with us
cool
but like i said if you
don't have this installed yet you know
you can't install yet don't worry
follow along right follow along uh see
the commands that we're using and then
as you have time feel free to go and
install those after class and then if
you have any trouble installing things
come on discord we'll help you get it
installed and then come to office hours
on saturday where we'll go i'm sorry
sunday where we'll go deeper into this
as well
cool
so i talked about
being able to run commands in this
terminal here
and there are some common commands that
you're going to need to know that are
going to help you navigate your computer
navigate files and folders and once you
get proficient at it it can actually
really quick to create stuff move around
stuff and you'll see me a lot of times
going forward in class just creating
stuff directly
here in the terminal instead of using my
gui that you see up here so here's a gui
right here
you can see this is my class 24 folder
and
i'm going to do stuff that you're going
to see populate here but i'm going to be
doing it all in the terminal
i'm so excited me too
all right so let's talk about some
common commands
uh right now you can see that i'm in my
class 24 folder
and so there is a really common command
that you can use called pwd
and so i'm just going to type pwd
and at least we can make it a little bit
bigger let me scooch this over
i mean it's a little bit bigger
let me go ahead and clear
all right let me a little bit bigger
just to make it a little bit clearer for
folks to see
all right there we go
there we go
cool
so
i am going to do pwd
and this stands for print working
directory
and so what you're going to see is the
path
to the folder that i am in you're going
to hear this word directory you're going
to hear word folder for tonight don't
worry about it whenever you hear the
word directory just think a folder on
your computer okay we don't get super
technical with it when you hear
directory just think folder on your
computer let's make our lives a little
bit easier tonight so cool we have this
pwa it shows you the print working
directory and the cool thing is it can
show you the full path
to the folder that i am currently in and
so this is helpful to figure out like
where you are and you can see that oh
i'm on my desktop i'm in a stream folder
i am in my 100 devs folder and i am in a
class 24 folder right and so this idea
here is that i can see where i currently
am
now
once i'm in a folder
i can even do things like make folders
wherever i am at so a very common
command that you'll use is maker
and what maker will enable me to do is
to make a directory and so keep your eye
up here in my gui
and i'm going to type in make dir
example
so what i have just done
is i have made a new directory or a new
folder called example
and you saw that folder be created in
real time
right you saw that that folder is
created in real time and it let me move
it over a little bit so that the the
gifts don't don't cover it but you can
saw that that folder example was made
from my command here in the command line
pretty cool
all right
some other commands that you're going to
see a lot
are cd or change directory so right now
what folder am i currently in
chat what folder am i currently in
yeah i am in class
24.
so if i want to go into the example
folder that i just created i could do cd
space
and then example and i could type it all
the way out or i can even just hit
tab
and when i hit tab it's going to enable
me to move into the example folder when
i hit enter
so now you can see that i am no longer
in class 24
but i am indeed
in the example
folder
and if i wanted to see what directory i
was currently in what command could i
use
yeah i could do pwd and you can see all
the way that i am in the example
directory nice you can still see it here
that i'm in the example directory as
well
cool
so that cd is what enabled me to move
from my class 24 folder into
my example folder nice
now
let's say i wanted to go back up
to the class
folder i'm right now inside of example
if i wanted to go up
a level back to class 24 i could do cd
dot dot
so what cd dot dot is going to want me
to change a directory but go up a level
so cd dot and now i am back in the class
folder
cool
so we've seen this dot dot once before
uh during our time here together
where have we seen this dot dot before
we've seen it one very specific place
that's come up during class
we've seen it when we were linking files
and we've seen it a lot when we were
linking images exactly
sometimes when we were linking images we
were like in a css folder and we needed
to get to an image folder
or we were trying to go from one folder
up to another folder and so we actually
were using this dot dot in those links
all the way back then
and the reason why it worked is because
this is how it works at a fundamental
level at the computer uh here we're
seeing this dot dot to go up a level
when we're doing our links inside of our
css or html it's the exact same thing
cool
what's the difference between cd dot dot
and just cd cd is going to go in
a folder and cd dot dot is going to go
up a folder so if i was to click here
if i was to go into example i'm in the
example folder now but i could go up a
level and now i can be in the class 24
folder that has example in it well i can
do the same thing inside of my terminal
here right here i'm in the class 24
folder i can cd into the example folder
now i'm in the example folder but if i
want to go back up
to the class 24 folder
i can cd dot dot that takes me up a
level where cd goes in a level
annihilator a thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
get a lovely drink in
alrighty
so we saw pwd we saw make directory make
dur we saw cd cd dot dot
we also have this lovely
uh way to go all the way back to our
home folder so if we were in a gui
we could be on my desktop
from my desktop i could go into my
stream folder in my stream folder i can
go into my 100 devs folder in my 100
devs folder i can go into my class 24
folder right that was a lot of clicking
right that was a lot of clicking we can
do all of this from the terminal as well
so what cd is going to do
cd tilde specifically what it's going to
do is bring me all the way back to the
beginning
all the way back to my home folder and
so when i do see day tilde
you can see that i'm all the way at
the the home folder of my computer
and then if i wanted to get back to
where i was into that class 24 folder
i'm going to have to cd into it so i
could cd desktop
and then i'd be on the desktop
i could cd
uh 100 devs
sorry cd stream
i'd be in my stream folder then i could
cd into 100 devs
and then i could cd into my class
24 folder right and that would work you
can see that i am now
inside of my lovely class 24 folder
right
or
i could do it all over again so let me
see the utility to go back to my home
folder so i'm back in my home folder and
i can do it all in one go so i can do cd
desktop
stream
100 devs
and then class 24
beautiful and i could hit enter and i
went all the way from my home folder
all the way to my class 24
folder
and so the idea here is that we can move
through our folders
using just these very simple terminal
commands
so
we've seen
pwd
cd
we've seen cd dot we've seen cd tilde
we've seen a bunch of these beautiful
kind of commands
and uh now
we have a lot on the screen so there's
something i could do
right there's something i could do if i
wanted to kind of get rid of the stuff
that was on the screen what could i what
do you think i could do i've shown it
once in the very beginning
yeah i could clear
i could do a clear
and once i'm kind of back up here what i
want to do
is i want to move into my example folder
and i want to create an html file
inside of that example folder
will these commands work for windows as
well yes if you are using git bash
if you're using the command prompt the
commands will be different so that's why
i recommend if you're on windows use git
bash
i sent a link in the slides but there's
also before before class as well there
will be a time for you to install if you
don't have a chance to install it so for
right now absorb the commands walk
through them and then we'll have a
chance for you to install it if you need
it
cool
alrighty so
if i want to get into my example folder
what can i do chat
cd example exactly so change directory
into my example folder cd
example beautiful now you can see that i
am in that example folder
and we have another command
that will enable us to create files so
normally to create files we open up vs
code we do new file we save that as a
specific file
but when we're in the command line
here in this lovely lovely terminal we
can do something specific we can go
ahead and do touch
and then name of the file
so here i'm going to touch index.html
and as soon as i hit enter
you can see
that this html file was created it makes
it bigger
all right you can see that that html
file was created i didn't have to open
up vs code i didn't have to create a new
file i didn't have to save i could just
do touch
index.html and boom we have an html file
all right
now
if you want to see all the files
that you have
in a folder
you want to see all the files you have
in a folder you can use the sls command
and so here with ls it'll show you that
right now
inside the example folder there is a
lovely
index.html file so if i wanted to see
the files or folders that were inside
of
the example folder i could just do ls
and it would let me know
what was in there and it would show me
here in the terminal
now there are what we like to call flags
which give these commands
superpowers basically and so a lot of
times you hear me use the word command
but a lot of time the things that we're
typing into the to the terminal here
they're actually just programs that are
running on the computer we call them
like utilities a lot of times and so
yeah you can call them power ups
whatever you want to call it but here
i'm gonna be able to do
ls i'm gonna be able to do ls
and i'm gonna do flag l
and when i do this flag l
i'm gonna get some more information
about each file or folder that is inside
of this folder
right and so here you can see
not only the name
but when it was created
and the permissions on that file
it'll show you the permissions that are
on that file and so you'll be able to
see like can you rewrite it can you
[Music]
can you modify it but it gives you all
that information there's also one other
command that you'll probably use a
little bit more which is ls flag la list
all
i want to see it all right and when i do
list all not only
not only
does it show you
the files that you can see in your gui
but it can also start to show you hidden
stuff that you can't always see in like
your your file or folder windows like in
your gui
and so a lot of times on your operating
system whether it's mac os or windows it
can do linux a lot of times you'll have
hidden folders turned off like you can't
see hidden folders like right now on
my my version of mac os here i don't
have my hidden files being shown or my
hidden folders being shown so if i ever
want to see stuff that's hidden i can do
this ls flag la
and be able to see not only the things i
visually see in my gui but anything that
would be in
hidden in these folders as well
can touch make a folder
no we would use maker make directory
whenever we want to create a folder we
use makeder whenever we make a file we
use touch
cool
so this ability to see the hidden
folders with this lsla
this will be really helpful when we get
to git
and we want to see
we want to see our hidden get files so
later on we'll be able to see this again
what does touch do touch creates a file
it creates a file
yep
cool and we're going to do this all over
again together
cool
so a few more commands i want to put
into your brain and then we're going to
get some practice using this and we're
going to do this a couple times together
so
if you feel like we went a little faster
the commands it's okay we're going to
show all the commands get them in your
brain and then we are going to
uh do them all together two times so
we'll we'll create a whole folder
structure using just the terminal then
we'll delete it we'll do it all over
again so we'll be able to see all these
commands in action
cool
alrighty
now the next command that we have is rm
and rm helps us remove exactly spaced
repetition
rm helps us remove a file so
we have if we do ls real quick we can
see that there's an index.html
in our example folder
so what i want to be able to do
is remove this index.html
uh we'll we're gonna we're gonna we're
gonna walk through these last few
commands and then we'll take our break
at the top of the hour come back we'll
do some raffles and then we'll walk
through using all the commands together
so let's go ahead and do rm always be
really careful please
don't don't type these commands out just
yet let me explain what they do before
you start throwing them around all willy
nilly here because they it can get a
little wild so give me a second
rm i'm going to do index.html
all right when i do that pay attention
up here
pay attention up here you ready
rm index.html ready
boom
i literally removed
that file using the command line poof
gone
we also have a another lovely
command
which will enable us to remove folders
so i can go up a level chat how do i go
up a level to my class 24 folder
how do i go up a level
cd dot dot nice so now i'm in my class
24 folder i want to remove
my folder of example
one thing you're going to notice we do
real quick watch i'm going to type my e
my x and then i'm going to hit tab
i always get into the habit of typing
and then hitting tab so that it
auto-completes the folder or file name
for me
right so i typed ex and then i hit tab
and it auto-completed for me this will
help you um
make sure you're you're typing out the
right things make sure there's no there
are no like mistakes that you're doing
it just it just helps you get move
around a little bit faster and delete
stuff so now i'm going to delete uh this
example folder
and poof
you saw that the folder disappeared up
in the in the lovely gui up top
and then there is one other uh really
big thing before we take our our break
uh is this lovely rmrf
folder
so this is a forceful remove
this is a forceful remove
what it'll do is it'll remove the folder
it doesn't care right it doesn't care
it will delete anything and everything
and it will be gone
not in your trash can
gone so you must be absolutely
100 sure you want all of this stuff gone
because once it's gone is gone
alright so always be careful whenever
you're doing this lovely rf
flag with the folder you're trying to
delete because if you do this it is gone
no one doozies no undone it's gone gone
so
i don't even know if i should say this
but we're gonna say it anyway
back in the day
if you were
if you were if you were
i don't know
you're trying to get someone got
and you're playing you're playing i
don't know counter-strike back in the
day
you would uh you would tell them to to
alt-f4 they'd be like hey how do i do
this and you would say alt f4
right and then you see them boop they
would disappear they wouldn't be playing
the game anymore because all f4 would
close
it would close the it would close the
game on them
now if you were like
evil
and they said hey how do i do this thing
or like hey am i game stuttering how do
i fix it
if you're evil not me i was never this
person you're evil you would say hey
do this on your computer
rm rf and then like a really important
folder like their system 32 folder or
something like that and then boof you
would see them
leave online and never come back because
they worked their entire computer
they're gonna wind up having to
reinstall windows so
i i give this as a cautionary tale
if anyone ever tells you to do this
command in the terminal because there's
something wrong or going going to miss
you now know you now have the knowledge
the power to know that they're messing
with you and that uh that whatever you
use this on whatever folder you use this
on it'll be gone
now i also use these carrots here just
to say like this is gonna be the folder
these these carrots aren't actually here
it's just the name of the folder so
whenever you see that these carrots
there just remove them and know that's
like the folder name that we're
inserting there
cool
we are a little over the top of the hour
there are a few more commands that i
want to show to you and then we're going
to talk about how to access the terminal
so actually i want to cover those two
things give me give me a little time to
go over here
just that if folks want to take the
break to install some stuff they can
um me we saw that when our
terminal gets a little cluttered
you can go ahead and clear
and it just gets rid of the stuff that's
cluttering your terminal and it just
makes it so you can start at the top
again so every once in a while i clear
just to give myself some room
and then uh you'll also notice that you
can open
files
you can open files directly into vs code
if you
uh install something specific in vs code
so let me go ahead real quick i'm going
to create a folder
called example
and i'm going to go into example and
don't worry when we come back from break
we're going to do this all again
once i'm an example i'm going to create
an
html file
and then what you're going to notice i
can do here is i can do code
and then the name of that file or i
could do code in the name of that folder
and
vs code opens it up for me
and so i didn't have to go anywhere i'm
in this folder now i can set up my html
like i normally would set it up
i can give an h1 here
it says thank you
microsoft
all right
right in here super easy and so the way
that you would do that
is when you have the s code open
you have
you have a few things you can choose
from you'll see code file edit selection
you're going to go to view
and one of the very first commands in
view
is the command palette
once you're in the command palette
you'll have this install code command
path you can see that i have it recently
used you just you just type that out you
click on it and it'll enable you to use
the code shortcut from your terminal to
just open whole folders or whole files
in uh vs code so really powerful really
really helpful and pretty easy to do
open up vs code go to view
go to command palette and then look for
this install code command and path you
do that boom it opens it all up
yeah code dot will open up everything
it's a good good shortcut too so if you
want to take some time to do that during
break maybe you could
and then the last thing i want to say
before we take our top of the hour break
is hey how the heck do i access this
terminal thing well
if you're on windows you're going to
want git bash you can go to git for
windows i would recommend that for today
all right i would recommend going to git
for windows today to get this stuff if
you ever need these links you can always
get the slides by doing exclamation
point slides here in chat
we do exclamation point slides you'll
get all the slides for today so if you
want these actual links to click on them
have the slides open i recommend if
you're on windows git bash today uh
going into the future wsl which we'll
talk about during office hours on sunday
so get batch for tonight wss wsl for
going into the future
if you're on mac or gnu linux you
probably already have a terminal
application
in your
application so just go ahead and open
that
cool
so you'll notice that i'm using a
terminal application called item it's a
terminal that i've installed on my
operating system i like it because i can
do cool stuff like uh have it be
transparent
which is helpful when you're you're
coding so you can see how mine's like a
transparent window so i really like item
if you're on mac os um it's really good
terminal
cool alrighty i know it was a lot we
went a little bit quick so what we're
going to do is we're going to take our
top of the hour break when we come back
we'll do our first like raffle that's
open to everyone and then we're going to
walk through creating a normal setup
like a normal folder setup so we're
going to create our html our css our
javascript all that fun stuff let's go
ahead and take a break and put five
minutes on the clock if you're new
around here we like to be healthy we
like to
we like to
take our breaks we like to make sure
that we're getting up if we're able
moving around hydrating letting our eyes
focus on something that's not the screen
and then we all come back so you're
going to see me get up walk away bob's
going to keep you entertained i'm going
to play some music i'm going to run some
ads so that folks that are joining us
live don't have to sit through ads when
they join and then we'll be back in five
minutes so take your five minutes when
we get back our first two raffles of the
evening that are open and everyone
sponsored by microsoft azure thank you
so much for sponsoring us and let's go
and take that break
so
is having knowledge of get back
something employers look for
um yeah absolutely it's something that
you're going to use if you're on windows
or something that you could use
there is wsl now as well so
knowing git and how to use it across any
opportunity operating system you're
using is something that's really really
important
uh pretty much every
professional software engineer uses git
or something very very equivalent to get
to get their work done and we're going
to see that later and once we get
through like the terminal and how the
terminal works we'll see kind of how
it all comes together to enable us to
work well with engineers or even to
enable us to work while on the code that
we write every day
will everyone think that i'm a big noob
if i use the github desktop application
um
i've seen it some some employers have
been a little a little skittish around
folks that use it um but i think it's
really important that you learn the
command line anyway and you learn how to
use the terminal of your choice they're
going to be a lot of times you're going
to need little utilities that run in the
command line you're going to need these
little
these little patterns that just help you
get more work done and so getting
comfortable with the terminal and
getting comfortable with running your
commands there is really important even
if you eventually do go on to use
the gui's that help with a lot of this
stuff knowing the basics and you might
not always be on a system that has
access to the gui and so knowing how to
use this is really helpful
a lot of times i'm accessing like my
computers i am accessing um the
different stuff i have on my network all
through terminals so a lot of times i'm
not i'm not running
code
in a in like a graphical user interface
i'm i'm running it through the terminal
and so
it's really important that you get
comfortable with it that you at least
see it and use it before you kind of
start thinking about the other the other
options as well
cool
alrighty
if you are on ubuntu vm uh no you should
be able to you should be fine there you
might have some trouble with your
folders but other than that you should
be fine like getting to your code will
be a little bit different but
a lot of stuff we will cover in office
hours or like i said each each computing
system is gonna be completely different
uh
your operating system might be different
and so if you're running into trouble
like you haven't been able to get it
installed that's okay come to discord
ask questions in our general code help
channel and folks will be more than
happy to help you
troubleshoot your specific issue that
you're having but like i said these
commands are universal once you have
everything set up so if for some reason
your setup isn't perfect this evening
that's okay
pay attention to the commands follow
along with us and then once you're able
to after class get everything set up
then you can try it again
and if you need the slides go ahead and
do exclamation point slides here in chat
it'll give you access to all the slides
we're using uh this this evening and if
you're new and you and you kind of just
want to stay in touch exclamation point
discord that's where you'll find once
you get our rules you'll find all of our
help channels and places to get support
on digging through all this stuff
uh uberfly there's no there's no uh
materials for today we didn't need any
materials because we're creating them
live folks we're creating our materials
live together so there's no like zip or
anything for today because we're
literally creating all the files and
folders that we need
because we're doing it together
which is pretty cool
all right
so what i want everyone to try and do
well first we're going to do some
raffles so let's go ahead and do our
first two raffles
uh the way raffles work is once i open
them they're not open yet so you don't
have to type it yet once i open them
you're going to do exclamation point
raffle
they're not open yet so you don't have
to type it once they're open your
adjustment point raffle that'll enter
into a raffle we're going to have two
different raffles each round the first
raffle will be microsoft swag that's
open to folks in the us
and then the second raffle will be open
to anyone in the world i ask that if
you're in the us that you just entered
the us raffle and if you're anywhere in
the world that you just enter in the
anywhere in the world raffle um don't
don't don't make this embarrassing for
us where you win the raffle that you
shouldn't have won uh so the first one
will always be the us only one so i'm
going to open that in a few seconds here
it's not open yet
all right let's start it
alrighty so the us only microsoft raffle
is open you can do exclamation point
raffle in chat and when you do that
you'll be entered into the raffle i'm
going to leave it open for a minute and
then after that minute uh we will close
it up and we will pick our winner live
then we'll do our anywhere in the world
raffle
yeah streamlabs putting in work today
that's all i gotta say look at this chat
alrighty
go for another
i guess i should put the timer up right
i think that might be easier
all right another 30 seconds for this
first one i should have added it from
the beginning
and then we'll close it we'll pick the
winner
and then uh we'll do the anywhere in the
world raffle
the swag is pretty sweet folks i got
some last time it was pretty dope not
gonna lie
then we'll do our course our laptop
raffle at the end our first one this
evening then the next one on tuesday
already closing this first raffle
and we're gonna pick a winner
already closing the entries now
picking a winner
[Laughter]
[Music]
uh rosie but you have won the
the raffle uh you can see the raffle
winner in chat as well
but rosie but congratulations
you have won the raffle
um i can see your response you said omg
i can see it pop up here in the stream
labs alert uh rosybot you will get a
you will get a
whisper from me
uh here on twitch this weekend and we'll
get that prize coming your way so i'm
gonna complete this raffle
and then we're gonna do our next raffle
which is open to anywhere in the world
this is the learn with leon swag pack so
let's go ahead and open that up the
entries are now open you can do
exclamation point raffle
this is open anywhere in the world if
you're in the us
this will not be shipped to you so don't
enter
all righty
i'm gonna write all these down too just
in case
but 30 seconds on here
so everyone knows we should have the
music going
and uh we're gonna do a few raffles
whenever we get to a difficult topic
we'll do a raffle uh but we're gonna
save the bulk of them for the end just
because i know it takes a little bit of
chunk out of the flow to do them all so
we'll have we'll probably do like two
more during the flow of stream and we'll
do the bulk of them at the end
all right gonna go ahead and close
these entries
and i'm gonna pick the winner you'll see
the winner come through in twitch chat
three two one
bomb-ish
bomb-ish hey congrats on the learn with
leon swag
bompish you'll get a whisper from me
here on twitch this weekend
congratulations of bompish
alrighty folks
thank you for the the first round of the
swag raffles
let's keep it going
alrighty
congrats rosie butt
let's get into this
alrighty so
what i would love for you to do
is
right now i am
going to bring my gui up to
right now
i would like for you to create a normal
folder setup
so i want you to create a normal folder
set up what i mean by that is think of
the normal front-end folder setup that
we use for class i want you to have a
folder
that has a css folder in it a javascript
folder in it and an
index.html in it
in the css folder i want you to have a
style dot css file
and in the js folder i want you to have
a main js so just set up our normal kind
of template template-esque setup that we
use
where you
will have your
folder with two folders inside of it and
three
files don't have to be the exact names
or anything like that i want you to try
it we're gonna using the terminal yes
don't don't open up your folder system
and try it doing the folder system
open up the slides move through the
slides if you need the commands right
use the slides if you need the commands
all right and you're going to set up
your normal folder setup for
how we would have our normal folders for
class so a css file a javascript
sorry css folder javascript folder and
the files that are inside
all right we're going to put a little
bit of time on the
clock here
just the folder setup nothing nothing
more fancy than that just the folders
and the files that's it
if you need to install git bash go ahead
and take the time to do that i'm going
to put five minutes on the clock here
i think five minutes will give folks
enough time to install if they need to
install anything and then try out this
folder system
cool
bring some music on
got this
for folks that are having trouble with
maker
uh on git bash run a cd just do a cd
command that's empty just do cd and then
try creating your makers
for some reason sometimes if you're not
in that home folder on git bash it will
uh it'll give you trouble
and then like i said you don't have
things set up this evening that's okay
you can take time after class to get it
set up we'll go over it together after
class
got a lot of dunzos coming in that's
cool that helps good to hear that
folkman yeah that's something weird
about get bash that i've noticed before
first try
all right nice
oh these dunzos
i feel like some of you all might have
done the homework hey look at us
good to put it to use nice
hey
uh if you need get bash the link is in
the slides the get for windows that's
what i would use
daddy d all right
go for it
caz with the dunzo hey i love it
how do we do spaces and folder names you
shouldn't
don't do it
no more spaces all lowercase
you can always use that tab if you do
have folders that have spaces in it you
can use the tab to jump the space but
you can also escape your spaces uh with
the
the backslash
kind of like how we escaped our
characters in javascript you can do the
same thing for the spaces in your folder
names
y should be lowercase just because some
terminals have trouble
with capital letters i just get you into
some trouble every once in a while so
avoid the trouble
it's rare
but
happens
also might not even be the terminal but
so much like you're you're executing on
these files and people are expecting
them to be lower case or something like
that so just easier give yourself some
headaches down the line
destroy all right i see y'all that's
awesome
what is code is that a command yeah it
just helps you open up your files
directly in vs code
so much easier than javascript hey
well we're back on javascript on tuesday
so
maybe a nice little respite
static what's not working
hey what's not working
did you do the cd trick where you just
do cd and then all your make directory
stuff
all right folks one more minute we're
gonna go over it
like i said if you have too much trouble
getting stuff installed that's okay
pay attention with us tonight see the
commands and then come get help on
discord after
i blank did it hey
there you go deja
let's get update uh yeah it does we'll
actually talk about one of the bigger
updates to it that happened not too long
ago
passion you're going to have to set up
the code command did you set up the
command that we showed in the slides
minty tuesday tuesday is our last day of
the best weekend we're gonna do uh we're
gonna splash out with everything on
tuesday
all right folks come back together if
you didn't give it that's okay let's do
this together
let's go ahead and do this together
alrighty
so
i have
i'm going to clear here
and i am in my example folder
i want to go up to my class 24 folder
and then delete this example folder so i
can do it all from the beginning how can
i go up a level i'm already in example i
want to go up a level how can i do that
cd dot dot exactly so i'm up a level i'm
in the class 24 folder and if i do this
all right i got rid of my example folder
there's there's nothing there if i do an
ls in class 24 i can see that there's
nothing here so let me clear
how can i create an example folder what
can i do to create the example folder
make dur exactly and example
beautiful
maker example
i now have this lovely example folder
and if i wanted to
move into this example folder how could
i do that
yeah cd
and then example and how how can i how
can i auto complete how can i
autocomplete something to type out the
whole thing
yeah cd ex tab yeah i just hit that tab
i get the full example i hit enter and
now you can see that i am in that
example folder
right i'm in the example folder i'm
where i want to be
and since i'm where i want to be
i can start creating my other folders
there's two folders
that i want to create
i want to create a css folder and a js
folder so i'm going to do make dir again
or css
and i'm going to do a maker for my js
and we can actually see that now inside
of example
we have our css and our javascript
uh folders
nothing in them right now
so
i'm also going to go ahead and make my
index.html
which should be on the same level
right my index.html should be on the
same level how can i create my
index.html
yeah touch
touch index.html
beautiful now you can see i have my css
folder my javascript folder and my html
file
i want to move into
my css folder
and once i'm in my css folder
right
i want to go into my css folder and i
want to create a style.css in there so
cd css exactly i'm going to change
directory into my css folder
boom you can see that i am in my css
folder
if i wanted to see exactly where i was
what could what command could i use
yeah pwd i can see the full all right i
can see i'm always i'm in class 24 i'm
sorry example and i'm inside the css
folder beautiful
i'm going to clear just so i get more
room
and
i want to create a style dot css file
how can i create my style.css
yeah just touch
file.css
great we can see we now have a style.css
folder i want to go to my javascript
folder
and add the main.js into that javascript
folder but
i
i'm in a pickle
how how can i get to the js folder
yeah i got to go upper level right i got
to go up and then down exactly cd dot
dot will take me up to the root of the
example folder
and now i can cd
into my javascript folder
cool
now i'm in the javascript folder
how can i create my main js
yeah
touch
green js beautiful so now you can see i
have my full
i have my full setup
i have
my example folder
my css folder my javascript folder i
have my three files my style css my
index.html main.js so we have our full
folder set up
i'm going to go back up a level
and now i'm at the example
folder level how could i open everything
in
uh vs code
board don't forget the space
i could do code
dot
beautiful and you can see when i did the
code dot it opened everything for me in
vs code so let me resize my window here
and we can actually see that the
index.html is here
the main.js is here and the style.cs is
here that code dot just opened
everything for me we're going to see
that dot again a little bit meaning like
everything
all right so i'm going to go to my
index.html
i'm going to do html
i'm going to go and make sure there's an
h1 in here
thank you
microsoft
azure beautiful
and um we should be able to open this
like if it was any other
file that we've been working with this
whole bootcamp
there you go we got the thank you
showing up so we literally create it
right we created our entire folder
structure
all of our files
without having to like really we didn't
click at all we just kind of typed it
all out
cool
we have it all going i'm going to close
this
i'm going to close this one as well
and uh i want to delete it and do it all
again
could you script this you could you
totally could you could totally have a
script that you would run in the
terminal
where you would just type in a command
hit enter and it would create all these
files for you
isn't that pretty cool
now i'm a hacker
yeah
that's the beauty of the terminal and
that's why
as you get more familiar with it as you
get more comfortable with it uh you can
do a lot of really fun stuff in the
terminal
there are whole like video games that
you can display in the terminal um muds
that you can play in the terminal you
can have your entire text editor if you
wanted it to like your entire code
editor in the terminal we've all seen
the primogen we've rated them before
they use vim which is all of their stuff
is in in the terminal which is pretty
wild yeah
cool
let's go ahead and
let's go ahead i want to delete this
entire folder
how could i delete this entire folder
i love me some mods i play mods all the
time
all right i want to go up a level
mods are multi-user dungeons they are
text-based
mmos basically
have you ever played like you ever heard
like world of warcraft imagine if that
was like text based
you're a lot of fun
alrighty so i'm i'm in my class 24
folder i want to delete the entire
example folder
i'm going to do the the forceful
removing of it and
ye
you can see everything
everything just disappeared my stomach
still always drops just a little bit
i've done that command a bazillion times
thousands and thousands of times i still
always feel a little
anytime i hit enter
all right
let's do it one more time and then we'll
move on
and start getting to get
all right so
we we got our we got our muscles warmed
up here let me clear everything
and we're going to do a we're going to
do a we're going to do a
speed run here
oh yeah
all right you ready
so
speedrun any percent
front end setup let's do it
all right so we want we're in our class
24 folder we want to create our example
folder so we'll do maker
example cool then we're going to move
into our example folder once we're in
our example folder we'll do our maker of
css we'll do our make
of js then we'll move into our css file
we'll do a
uh we'll do a a style dot css then we'll
go up a level we'll
cd into our js folder and then once
we're in our js folder we'll we'll go
ahead and do a main.js and then we will
cd
back to our example folder and we'll do
a touch
index.html
and then we will open it all in the s
code
and then once we are in vs code
we will do html
and then once we're in that we'll go
ahead and put our h1
and we'll say thank you
microsoft
azure beautiful save it
open it in the default browser
let's go
clip it
so we just created our entire folder
structure
we just created our entire folder
structure uh now you're just showing off
yeah a little bit
we just created our entire folder
structure
directly in the terminal
and we used all the commands we learned
so far we were able to
create directories with makeder we were
able to move around our directories with
cd we were able to make files using
touch and
we were able to open up all of our files
in vs code using the code command
beautiful
how did you get the code command working
in the slides that give you the exact
steps you have to do you have to go to
view you have to open up the command
palette and then you have to type in
that command that was in the slides
all right
lexus confirmed indeed
all right folks uh let's do another
raffle that was fun that was fun we got
through it we saw the commands uh let's
do a raffle
we're gonna do a raffle and then we're
gonna jump into get
let's do a raffle and we're gonna jump
in the git so first raffle i'm gonna
open up is going to be a microsoft swag
um
it's gonna be a microsoft swag
and so let me open it up one second
i'm gonna start the giveaway now you can
do exclamation point raffle to get in
here
we're gonna put 30 seconds on the timer
and then we'll take our winner and then
we'll go ahead and do the anywhere in
the world raffle for the learn with leon
swag
30 seconds you got this
get in here exclamation point
raffle
don't know how to type it it's on the
screen
all right i'm gonna close it up and
we're gonna pick our winner
keep grabbing the wrong mouse all right
here we go closing our entries
pick a winner three two one
ciao
how fun
all right there we go chow have fun
congratulations
yeah you did it
uh i will send you a whisper
on
i will send you a whisper
twitch this weekend and we'll get you
all set up with that swag pack coming
your way
let's go ahead and do our next raffle
which will be for the anywhere outside
of the u.s
anywhere outside the u.s
open now exclamation point raffle get in
here
you got this one
and put 20 seconds on the timer sorry
been open for a little bit
cool
you got this come on get in get in i see
y'all getting in exclamation point a
raffle
hope you're having a little bit of fun
with the terminal i know at the
beginning it's a little rough it's a
little tough but
we'll get a lot of practice in it'll
make more sense as we go through thank
you for being here
all right let's let's let's uh pick the
winner here
let's pick our lovely outside the us
winner closing the entries
picking the winner three two one
ryan zelesk
ryan celeste congratulations you see
your your lovely uh message here in in
chat uh ryan celeste congratulations
i'll send you a whisper here on twitch
this weekend
alrighty ryan congratulations
marking it down here on my end beautiful
already folks let's get back into it
we're going back to the slides here
and uh
we're gonna have a little bit of fun
we're gonna learn a little bit a little
bit a little bit a little bit of get a
little bit of
gear all right
who had never heard of git before
tonight i'm curious in chat never heard
of git before before tonight
all right so we gotta we quite quite a
few folks
okay nice
so i'd like to see all right so we're
going to learn about the the the basics
of git tonight i'm going to try my best
to kind of explain like why git is
really useful why as software engineers
we're going to use it
all the time so let's talk about git for
a bit and then we're going to see some
of the common commands we're going to
start putting it into action and then
we'll take our break and when we come
back for break we'll do our raffle so
get
um
solves some very important problems for
us but before we get there i want us to
think back
to um
what you might have done
while working on a really important word
document so
i mentioned the other day during class
that i had a really unique experience in
high school
in high school i started off with floppy
disks being the way i saved and backed
up stuff
and then
by the end of high school i was using
flash drives
and so for me whenever i was working on
a really important word document
and i was in the library
trying to bang out my essay just minutes
before it was due i was always really
concerned
that
the computer would die
or something would happen and all my
work would be lost
so beginning of school
what i used to do
is i had i pay a quarter for floppy disk
and i had like four floppy disks
like i wasn't playing no games and so i
would get like almost all the way like
everything i every time i had like a
significant progress on my word document
i would pop in my floppy disk i would
save it to the floppy disk i would take
the floppy disk out and i put it i put
it on another floppy disk as well so i
had two freaking floppy disks that had
the backups of my paper because i wasn't
playing no games i had to get stuff i
got to get that turned in i was playing
no games and so
i used to back up my word docs every
single every bit of time i made progress
i would back them up twice
right every single time i made like
significant progress i would save it i
would back it up twice and and that that
enabled me to
to feel a little bit better with myself
uh some people are saying zip disk yeah
we had we had like floppies
zip this for a few months and then and
then
flash drives and so
eventually like as my high school career
went on i would switch from floppy disks
to thumb drives and i always carry two
thumb drives i was the cool kid with the
thumb drives on like the lanyard right
yeah
let eat your heart out right and i would
back up my word document my essay onto
two flash drives every single time
because i was paranoid that something
would happen the power would go out i
would lose all my work and i wouldn't
have it
right so i always backed up two to two
two times
then as i got to university
uh i didn't really need to use flash
drives
or or floppy disk anymore i did the uh
delete
way of backing up my essays or my word
documents anybody know how i used to
back up my word documents once i got to
university like this was like the next
level
i would email it to myself
like every five paragraphs i would like
save it
i would save the word doc and then i
would like email it to myself
like every every five paragraphs or so
like i wasn't trying to get caught
i would i would ever i'm just paranoid
every little bit of changes i would like
save it i would email it to myself
and back then if i wanted like others to
work on the essay with me we were doing
like a group project i would like save
my my my
my essay i would email it to them they
would like make their changes before
like track change or anything like that
they would make their changes like in a
different color
and then if i wanted to like i could
like
merge in their changes if i wanted to
like it was just it was a hot mess thank
you microsoft 365 for having automatic
backups and i don't have to worry about
this anymore right
but the the
this idea of like saving
a snapshot of our essay or our word doc
and backing it up so that we always have
copies of it but the other cool thing
was
if i just went on like a tangent like a
complete tear
and my essay just dissolved into like a
really weird argument what could i do
like if i just hate it the argument that
i made in my essay what could i
do that fell out i feel this
i would just go like two emails back
grab that copy download it and start
over again right so
this like process
of saving my essay emailing it to myself
having the ability to like roll back to
previous versions of the essay being
able to share those changes with others
is something that i did
because i was paranoid about losing my
work or because i wanted to work with
others or because i wanted the ability
to roll back to a previous version of my
essay
this is like a very very simple version
of what we call version control
and git solves this problem not for your
word docs or your essays but for your
code
git gives you the ability right it gives
you the ability
to make save points
to be able to say you know what i like
where i'm at right now i would love to
be able to come back to this point in
time
right this point in time and use the
code that i had written then
i would also be able to take these save
points and maybe put them on a service
like github so i could share my current
code with everyone or if i needed to and
say i completely borked my entire
computer
i rm
flag rf my entire desktop and i got rid
of all my code well my my save points
would be on the cloud
all right so
this idea of backing up and saving was a
really my early rudimentary version of
version control and that's all git is it
just solves this problem of needing
backups the ability to roll back to
previous versions to then eventually be
able to take snapshots of where we are
that's what git does
so
git is a version control system and all
a version control system is is like a
really fancy term for tracking changes
changes to your code that you make or
others on your team make to the code
that you're working on and once you
embrace git
your life changes
it really does change because it enables
you to
take what we call snapshots there's like
more technical jargon we can throw on
here but we're gonna say snapshots um
and they're just save points like you've
gotten so far in your code i want to
save where i'm at right now maybe i want
to come back to it later maybe i want to
do something else different right so
getting able to take these snapshots
and these snapshots you make by making a
commit so
commit is just a fancy term for creating
a save point
so eventually when we are using git
we are going to make commits and
whenever you hear me say the word commit
all i mean is i am taking a snapshot of
my code it's the same thing as if i had
zipped it up and emailed it to myself it
is a snapshot that i can use later on i
can come back to
and this liberates you in ways that you
do not yet know if you have never used
git and eventually github
in the future
cool
so
get one of the most beautiful things is
that once you make a snapshot you can
roll back to a previous snapshot
so let's say you are writing your code
and you get lost in the sauce and you're
like this is horrendous i should have
never
ever done this what was i thinking
instead of having to do command z
command z command z command z command z
command z command z
right instead of having to do all that
we could just roll back to one of our
snapshots
all right we could just go back to one
of our snapshots and just start anew
from where we were before
the other thing that we'll see in a
little bit
is that we can create branches where we
can say all right i like where i'm at
let me create a specific branch where i
can just
i can just go down this wild rabbit hole
and if i don't like it i just go back to
the other branch that i was on so git
gives us this beautiful ability to
create snapshots that we can either roll
back to
or that we can save in the cloud or that
we can use a bunch of other features to
like make it easier for us to take risks
to do things that we might not feel
comfortable doing to experiment to try
and know that we're not going to
keep up everything else
right
i'm telling you
get really does help get this fear
out of you like i think when new or
entry-level engineers are first really
starting to do
really difficult stuff there's always
this fear that i'm going to mess up my
code that whatever tangent i go down it
might break all the other stuff well
with git you can always roll back to a
previous save point you can always back
up your saves to the cloud using github
and if you really want to do something
experimental or have fun you can create
a branch go down a rabbit hole delete
that branch entirely it's a really
beautiful
system
cool
so
i know that's a lot to throw on your
plate
i i see some folks are saying amazing i
see a lot of folks that see that this
could be fun so let's do a raffle when
we come back from our break when we come
back from our break we're going to see
get
we are going to give you the ability to
see the basic get commands
and if you do not have get installed
already you can take a peek forward
on how to install it but i'm going to
walk through all those those things
together
but we're going to take our break
because we're at the top of the hour
when we come back from break we'll do a
raffle and then we're going to jump in
to get i want you to have this
superpower today you walk away with a
superpower this ability to remove fear
from your coding process the ability to
save snapshots or roll back points or
have the ability to experiment and save
your code to the cloud it's going to
change
your coding life so
five minute timer
if you like to be healthy if you're able
please get up move around
hydrate kiss some babies we'll be back
in five minutes for a raffle and we're
jumping in to get can't wait
all right folks i'll see you in five i'm
gonna run some ads uh so that other
folks that are joining us don't have to
sit through them
see you then
the raffles after the break folks it's
not open yet
haunted happy place uh private repos are
completely free so not everyone has to
see it talk about that a little bit
do
where do you post clips at the end of
the stream i will in the following
materials channel when i do like the
follow-up after stream i'll post a
slider where you can submit your clips
i'll say this this this run since
microsoft is sponsoring i'll do a i'll
match a swag so the best clip gets swag
this evening
as well
not just the beautiful golden color
alrighty folks
come on back come on back
we got two lovely raffles to get through
let's go ahead and get this raffle
wrong headphones
let's get this raffle dud
and then we'll move in to get so i'm
gonna open it up it's not open yet oh
y'all love to get in here quick all
right so this is for folks in the u.s
i'm going to open it up in three two one
it's open you can do exclamation point
raffle to get in if you did it earlier
you were not in so type it again
thank you again microsoft azure for
sponsoring anybody has to do all these
lovely raffles
get in here folks
gonna put 20 seconds on the timer
you got this
alrighty get in here
then we're going to get into get we're
going to see this amazing super power
and action we're going to see how to get
all of our code also on github we're
going to see how the host it's going to
be awesome
alrighty
let's go ahead and close these
and pick our winner
three two one
zank
nods thank canad hey congratulations
you should see your name in the uh in
the stream in the stream as well
congratulations
i'm gonna complete this one
and we're gonna do
our
outside the us learn with leon swag
entries are open get in here exclamation
point raffle if you're outside the us
beautiful
get in here get in here
20 seconds left on the timer
this is the best this is the best week
ever
we're learning we're getting swag what
this is the best
alrighty folks
i put this timer over here
i'm going to close the entries
i'm going to pick the winner
three two one
norro
leptique
a congratulations on the win uh for both
the folks that just won you'll get a
whisper from me here on twitch this
weekend congratulations
neuroleptique
oh
that's interesting good one
congratulations everybody
let me go ahead and complete this see
your woo
all right let me uh just mark that down
over here and we'll keep going we're
gonna get into this get folks i'm
excited
this is like one of my favorite things
for you to unlock it's literally a
superpower it'll change
how you handle your code going forward
all right
i love when the music just like times
perfectly with us continuing
all right there are many ways to install
git if you are not able to install git
before class that's okay
you don't have to have your fingers on
the keyboard for this section i'm going
to show you the important bits we're
going to see it live and then we're
going to do some raffles so don't feel
like you have to have it installed
already
if you're on certain operating systems
it comes installed but if you're on
windows i recommend git for windows for
today that'll walk through git bash
it'll give you a version of git that you
can use and then eventually if you're if
you're on windows for the rest of 100
devs you should use wsl
so
both these links are in the slides
and then if you're a mac os i really
love homebrew
so what you would do is you would take
this link here
and you would grab it and you would
paste it into your terminal over here
whenever you see the bling like the
money sign that's not something that you
enter into the terminal that just means
anything that follows this gets entered
into the terminal so you would grab from
that forward slash over and then you
would paste that into your terminal over
here
once you do that you would have homebrew
install homebrew is what we call package
manager it's like a really easy way to
install applications on your computer so
you could then do brew install git and
it would install git on your computer
you don't have to like go to a website
you have to download something you don't
have to unzip it you don't have to run
an executable um homebrew is for mac os
but there are plenty of package managers
for window and then even gnu linux so
homebrew is really cool
whenever i want to install something i
don't like actually go on the internet
and install stuff like i just go to
homebrew i want to install firefox or do
brew install firefox right and so yeah
the idea here is that there are similar
things chocolaty exactly for windows as
well
but package managers are amazing they
just enable you to install stuff really
quickly um they handle like all you can
do all the updates and stuff like that
as well so big fan of home brew on mac
os
uh good new linux uh if you're on it and
certain flavors of good new linux you're
gonna have different package managers so
if you're on debian or ubuntu you would
use appgit and you could just do an
update and an install and that's how you
could get git but you should already
have it installed on gnu linux you just
want to have the updated version
and then
once you have git installed
no matter if you do it right now or if
you do it after class don't worry if you
don't already have it installed just do
it after class
once you do have it installed there's
two commands that you almost you always
want to run these commands before you do
anything else right so these two
commands are really important
these will set your global username for
git
and your global email for git
and whatever email you use it should be
the email that you use for github just
to make your life easier
okay
so whatever you set up for your name and
email just make sure it's the one that
you eventually use for github when you
create your github account it will make
your life a little bit easier but what
this does
what this does is it makes sure that
every commit that you make
is identifiable to you like it'll show
you that like oh you were the person
that made that commit and maybe when
you're working with other engineers
it'll show that they made the commits
and so are those snapshots right so also
make sure you have these two things set
up some folks forget about it and then
they go to get their code on github and
they have some issues so make sure you
have these two commands once you have
get up and running cool
so
um
i'm gonna give folks just like a minute
or two to try and get get installed and
so i am going to
uh run a raffle
while we let folks try and get installed
if they want you don't have to like i
said i'm going to show you some small
commands that you can do on your own but
we're going to put a timer up on here
we're going to do like um
just do
or not three minutes
three minutes if you just want to try
install git it's all right
um i'm gonna give you three minutes and
then
while we're doing that we're gonna do
some raffles
cool
so i'm gonna do the first raffle for
folks in the u.s
let's go ahead and open that raffle
there we go
we do exclamation point raffle we'll let
this go until like 1
145 and then we'll close it and then
we'll do the outside the us
and so right now feel free to try and
install git if you don't already have it
um
a lot of you probably already do
especially if you uh follow the
instructions before class
if you don't already have git that's
okay like i said we'll go through it
together regardless
and if you get really stuck sometimes
when you're installing git it just it
just
does the most if you have trouble come
to discord ask questions come to office
hours ask questions we'll help you get
set up
all right
all right folks i'm going to go ahead
and end this one
and close the entries
pick a winner
mermadet remember that hey
congratulations
you won the ms the microsoft
uh swag pack mermadet
go ahead you're gonna whisper from me
this weekend congratulations
[Laughter]
all right let's go ahead and complete
this one
and we're going to open up a
another one for anyone outside of the
u.s opening now you can do exclamation
point raffle to get in
all right about 40 seconds left
all right come on get in here and hit
zero i'll close it
uh for that person
it's going by a really fast chat because
of all the raffles but
some folks have trouble making
directories when they're in git bash if
they don't do cd to their home directory
first it's like a cd with nothing after
it takes you home directory and then
some of the commands start working so
try that all right let's go ahead and
close this one
and we're gonna pick a winner
mental ram hey mental ram
congratulations you'll get a whisper
from me this weekend with your learn
with leon swag congratulations mental
ram
all right uh you know what
let's do another one
let's do let's do another round if folks
are still trying to install we got them
let's go ahead let's do another round uh
we'll go ahead and do another microsoft
raffle
another another raffle sponsored by
microsoft azure so we go ahead and open
that up real quick one second
all right three two
one it is now open exclamation point
raffle another round
i wish we could do this every class just
like whenever we needed to do like break
time or like you all are working on
stuff just raffles that'd be dope
all right let me let me just put the
timer on here just going to use this for
30 seconds we're not going to go the
full 3 minutes
and do 30 seconds i'll stop and then
we'll do the next one and then we'll
we'll get back to our get
this is the uh us microsoft swag yes
all right i'm gonna go ahead and close
the entries
now pick a winner three two one
lav underscore underscore lav
congratulations
on the swag
live congrats you'll get a message from
me on twitch
uh
i'm gonna actually i'm just gonna copy
your name because i don't actually know
how many underscores that is
uh so hopefully there's not a lav with
one underscore
all right laugh congratulations i'm
going to complete this raffle we're
going to open up one more anyone outside
the u.s
garland key hey thank you for the five
get the subs i appreciate you thank you
for being here
all right that's open exclamation point
raffle anyone outside the u.s can get in
here
let's go
alrighty
15 more seconds and then we'll close it
then we're going to get into get
unleash your your your get super powers
and we're gonna be able to store our
code on github and that's gonna change
how we submit homework it's how we do
everything going forward
boom
you get swag you get swag exactly
alrighty go ahead and uh close this one
out
i'm gonna pick a winner in three
two
one
nick's woolery nick's woolery hey
congratulations nick's woolery
you'll get a whisper from me this
weekend
we'll get that learn with leon swag
coming your way
all right folks
let's get into some get shall we
alrighty
let's chill the music
we did our raffles lovely
we still got plenty more raffles to go
folks we still got
let's see we still got three more
microsoft raffles three more regular
raffles um
and uh and uh a laptop raffle folks
the raffle bot was broken last raffle
i don't think so i still saw the entries
come in i think eventually um
i think eventually the the messages are
too much for twitch because there's so
much of them um but yeah no i saw all
your entries come in there was like 800
plus entries so they came in you
probably just didn't get the the ping or
the message but it was it was working
you know
cool
yeah ticket bot passed out exactly
all righty let's talk about some basic
get commands uh there are really kind of
like four or five commands that you're
always going to use
i'm going to show the simplest versions
of these commands know that as you get a
little bit more into it they're going to
be special flags that you would use
there's many ways to select everything
in slightly different ways i just want
to show the simplest things that would
kind of build off of what we've already
seen in the terminal and then as you
kind of get more into git you'll learn a
little bit more and a little bit more of
the flag so give me uh give me a little
a little bit of wiggle room here
flag a versus dot we're gonna use docs
already saw dot today and what it could
do all right
beautiful so
we talked about get being able to take
snapshots of our code
right
well we need a special folder to put our
snapshots into
and that special folder we create using
git init
so with git init we can create a special
folder that we can store
all of our snapshots in we are
initializing
a git
repository so you're going to hear the
term repository and so just think of a
special folder where we're going to
store all of our snapshots in it all
right so we're we're not
we're this is not top boy we're not
london slang around here we are creating
a special folder or a repository for our
snapshots
okay
alrighty so we have get in it
we're going to create that special
folder so i'm actually going to do it
right now if i wanted to see all the
folders that i have right i want to see
all the folders i have including hidden
folders what would the command be in
chat
if i want to see all my folders
including hidden folders
ronan got it first nice
ls-la
if i do that i can see all the stuff
that's inside of this example folder i
can see that there is a css folder a
javascript folder and an index.html file
right and so
what i want to be able to do is i want
to be able to create that initialize i
want to create that special folder i'm
going to initialize that special folder
for our snapshot so i'm going to do git
init
and you can see i i created an empty git
repository a place where i can store
those snapshots
now if i was to do an ls
i wouldn't see that repository i would
just see the the css folder the
html file and the javascript folder and
so that's kind of really the first time
that our ls-la can be really useful
right when i get all the goods i can
also see this hidden
repository this hidden get repository so
that ls flag la can be really helpful to
see if there's a git repo already in
your folder or not
should i be doing this on bash if you
want to you could also just pay a lot
pay attention as we move along there's
only a few commands that we're showing
that i want you to be
comfortable with
cool
so once we have this repository where we
can store our snapshots
we're going to want to gather all the
files that are going to make up the
snapshot but we don't kind of just chuck
them into the git repository or that
that special folder that we just
initialized we're going to gather
everything on a stage
before we take our snapshot and put it
in the folder it's kind of like if i was
going to
email myself all the stuff i was trying
to save i have to put all that stuff
like into a folder before i zip it and
then email it to myself well the same
thing happens when we're using git we
have this special folder we're going to
store our snapshots in our repository
but we want to gather all the stuff
before we put it into that folder and so
git add
enables us to kind of grab all the stuff
that we need we're actually going to
need our css folder we're going to need
our our html file we're going to need
our js folder and so what we're going to
do is we're going to add all of that to
a staging area
and so git add just adds all those files
and folders to a staging area eventually
we can use a special command to take the
snapshot that saves all that stuff into
the repository
beautiful
so here if i wanted to
i could add an individual file so i
could do something like
git add
index
dot html and that would add that file
right that would add that file to my
staging area
i could
add any file that has a certain ending
so let's say i had a bunch of html files
i could do asterix
uh dot html and that would add all of
the html files to my staging area
and if i just wanted to add
everything to my staging area i could
just do git add
dot
right like i said there's some other
ways to do this but i think this is
simple and so if i do get add dot
i now have added everything that i had
right all of my stuff
that was in this folder
is now in a staging area
i haven't put it in my snapshot folder
right i haven't actually saved it to
that special folder yet it's in it's on
the stage it's in the staging area
right
and when i am ready
i can take a snapshot of everything
that's on the stage
and put it in that special folder
right
the special word that we use
to take the snapshot of everything
that's in staging is called commit
right we're going to commit
our
files and folders that are in staging
and once we commit them we add them to
our special folder right so if we were
going to
draw this out
we would have our special
repository over here where all of our
snapshots get saved
before we put them in that special
folder we have a staging area
what git add dot does
is it enabled me every single file
that was in this folder
just got added to staging my css folder
my html file
my javascript folder all that got added
to the staging
area
what i will do next is i will commit all
this stuff that's in the save in the
staging area
and put it
into our special repository and then we
will have kind of like a little
save point that's in that repository
all right now
we could do this over and over again
right we have our special area that has
one save point but i could make a bunch
of changes
right i could add a bunch of new files a
bunch of new folders
and if i wanted to
i could
add them all the new files to our
staging area so i could have my original
html file my new html file and my
javascript file
once i feel comfortable
i could take that snapshot
and add a new save point to my
repository
so if we look at the commands that we
learned no
if we look at the commands that we
learned
we had get in it
which created that special folder where
we're going to save
all of our snapshots
then what we're able to do
is we're able to add individual files or
all of our files and folders to a
staging area
eventually whenever we're ready we'll go
ahead and commit all those files and
folders
to take a snapshot that gets saved
into that original repository that we
created
cool
now
if i wanted to
right now
have i made that snapshot
have i made the snapshot
yet
no
i haven't made the snapshot yet so i can
actually do something pretty cool
i can do git status
and git status shows me
all the stuff
that is being that is waiting to be
saved that's waiting to be part of that
snapshot you can see all the stuff
that's waiting to be committed so right
now i can see that oh
i have my css my index.html
my javascript we've added it all to what
area we've added all these files and
folders to what area
the staging area yep we added them to
the staging area
and if i wanted to
i could actually remove files from the
staging area if i wanted to with this
command this will enable me to remove
just say like my index.html from the
staging area but once i feel comfortable
i can commit
everything that's in this staging area
take a snapshot of it and that snapshot
gets saved into my git repository so
what i'm going to do is i'm just going
to do git commit and i'm going to do it
the the long way and then i'm going to
show you a something scary that might
happen so
i'm going to do git
commit
i'm going to use m for message
and i'm going to leave a special message
about this commit so i'm going gonna say
this is
uh all of my
original
files and folders
hello
twitch
right so now when i hit enter
you can see all of my history
has now been saved as a snapshot and
that's now in my repository until i get
rid of it and so the idea is now if i
look i do get status
you can see that there's nothing to
commit
everything has been saved so all these
steps
all this did is like if you've ever
played a video game
and you hit saved
right you hit save and then like you
turn off the game you go away
and you come back and you load up that
save file that's exactly what we just
did
right what we just did is we said all
right wherever i'm at in the game
save this point in time
right save this point in time
and then at any point in time i can come
back and pick up exactly where i am
i could come back at any point in time
right i could come back at any point in
time and go back exactly to where i had
this folder this folder this folder this
html file with everything exactly the
way it is
now let's say i added a new file
so i'm going to go ahead and do touch
about.html
so i have a new file
what i want to do is create a new
save point
that has this about html in it as well
so i could do
get add dot
if i did a git status you can see that
you can see that i'm i'm i haven't made
a snapshot with the about yet
and then i could do
git commit
dash m and i would say add it
the about
html file
boom
now i have two save points
that are inside
of my git repository
i have one save point
that had just the index.html
and i have another save point that has
the index.html and the about html
so just like i used to create saves and
email them to myself or make saves and
put them on a floppy disk or make saves
and put them on a flash drive
i now have the ability to have multiple
save points multiple snapshots
right multiple snapshots that i can roll
back to whenever i want to
all right
i can come back to any of these
snapshots i can come back to any of
these versions and so this is
very freeing
because if you're if you're ever playing
a really really hard video game
if you're ever playing a hard video game
and you know you're about to go and play
the boss
like the big boss that you're about to
go up and play what do you do before you
fight that big boss
you save
you save your game before you go and
fight that big boss
you should do the same thing with your
code
before you tackle that next feature
before you tackle that next bug before
you tackle that next big thing you have
to get done
create a save point create a snapshot
get add dot git commit
right you now created a save point so
that if you go up against that boss
and you lose you can just go back to
your previous snapshot you can go back
to that save file right
and so that's all we're doing here we're
creating these save points these these
snapshots that we can roll back to if we
need to
cool
now
there's one other thing that i want to
do
uh and that's eventually i want to get
to branches
but before we get to branches we're
definitely going to do a raffle because
it was um
this was this is this is a lot to take
in
there's a lot to take in uh we'll we'll
we'll practice rolling back during
office hours i think i'll be a little
too much for right now so come on sunday
i'll show you how to roll back the
previous same points but i am going to
show you how to see all your commits
there's one thing that i want to bring
up
before we kind of move on and do a
raffle
is that there are kind of two ways to do
commits you saw me do the easy way which
is the git commit flag m text
but what often happens is people just do
git commit and they get themselves into
a tricky
spot
let me show you the tricky spot you can
get into so let's go and create a new
file
um
touch
uh tricky
dot html
and i'm gonna go ahead and add it
i'm going to commit it
but i'm not to do the flag m
ready i'm i'm not going to do the flag m
that leaves you to put the message right
there i'm just going to hit enter
and uh oh
many
many uh
many have adventured and found found
themselves in this this area
uh what i just did is when i did git
commit and i hit
enter it dropped me into a text editor
that exists solely in the terminal so
there are text editors that you can use
vim v emacs these things that exist as
text editors that are only in the
terminal so if you were to ever just hit
git commit what it does is it says oh
you're trying to type a really long
commit message so i'm going to open up
the editor in your terminal so you could
write this
really this really long commit message
so
we're gonna do i
and then we can type in whatever the
heck we want right for our commit
message
and then we can hit escape
colon
w q
hit enter
and now we've made our commit
[Laughter]
so if you ever find yourself in trouble
where you just did commit
git commit and you wind yourself in vim
you're going to want to do a few things
you're going to want to type the letter
i
the letter i enables you to insert and
like type stuff
and then when you're ready to leave that
text editor you got to hit escape
colon
wq and then hit enter and that'll take
you out of him and back to the terminal
so
i don't ever really use this
if you watch a lot of other streamers
here on twitch like there's some folks
that are really good at this stuff
primogen is like
going all wild in here right we love
watching them we read them we rated them
before right
this is just the emergency if you find
yourself in here and you need to know
how to get out you always have these
slides to refer to i
type your message escape
colon wq hit enter
all right
but most of the time you're just going
to use this type of commit message
yeah i agree vim is awesome it's
definitely worth learning i just think
it's too much in the rabbit hole for for
this class but definitely something you
might pick up in the end
corey lr hey thank you for the 10 gifted
subs that's wild thank you so much thank
you for being here
cool
alrighty there's one other thing that i
want to mention too is that if you
haven't installed or updated git
recently you're going to notice
something really interesting if i do get
status
it will always tell you what branch you
are on and we're gonna we're gonna get
there in a second we're gonna do our
raffle and then we'll talk more about
branches but you can see that i'm on
branch master
and
around october of 2020
um there was kind of a movement to
switch away from master and start using
main and so github was one of the folks
that kind of led that charge and so it's
maine now so if you are to
use an older version of git
you would probably still see master
and so you would want to change the
branch you're working on from master to
main especially if you know eventually
you're going to use github because
github's going to expect your main
branch where you're doing all your work
where you're doing everything to be
maine so we can change that real quick
and then we'll do our raffle and then
i'll talk about what the heck branches
actually are so get
branch
m
main beautiful
so now if we do get status
we can see that we're on branch main
cool
alrighty
let's go ahead and do a well-deserved
raffle
well-deserved raffle we now know how to
make save points in our code that's so
helpful to be able to make a save point
and know that if you if you
up everything else
you can come back to that save point and
have everything the way it was all your
folders your files exactly the way that
they were
all right let's go ahead and run a
raffle we'll do a microsoft raffle first
one second gotta set it up
all right
opening in three two one all right get
in here you gotta if you typed it in
early you got to do it again exclamation
point raffle
put 30 seconds on the clock here
boom get in here this is for folks in
the us
exclamation point raffle
hard topic raffle our topic raffle
all right folks get in here
we got this
we got this all right
come on let me uh go ahead and close the
entries here
i'm gonna go ahead and pick a winner
and the winner is
[Laughter]
is the winner
congratulations cuckoo cachoo 06
congrats
all righty let's go ahead and uh
complete
and then i'm going to open up one for
anyone outside of the u.s it is now open
exclamation point raffle to get in here
beautiful
we'll look at branches we'll see a
little bit about github and then we'll
finish up the evening
with two more sets of raffles and a
laptop raffle which is pretty wild
all right ten ten more seconds
get in here
see y'all entering
alrighty let me go ahead and close the
entries
we're going to pick a winner in three
two one
eddie from two five four
is the winner congrats eddie two for
congrats on your lyric leon swag
um
and oh six and eddie from two five four
you'll get some whispers from me this
weekend to get you all set up with that
swag
congrats
alrighty
let's look at these idea of branches
which i think are some really amazing
wonderful
things that really changed my coding
life
and then we'll look at um github and
then we'll call it with some raffles and
do a raid already folks so
we learned about git
and we saw that git can make
commits
or snapshots of our code that we can
roll back to
if we want to
right
but what if you want to try something
without borking all your code
git actually gives us this really
wonderful feature that we don't have to
rely on just rolling back we can
actually kind of create branches from
our main code so if we have like our
code base that we're working on and we
just want to try something want to like
try a feature we want to kind of do
something that might be a little risky
we can make a branch
right we could make a branch
we could do all of our changes in that
branch and if we don't like it we can
just go back to our main branch or if we
do like it we can merge everything from
that branch into our main set of code so
let's go ahead and take a look at this
this idea of branches
so
i'm going to go ahead and clear
here and i'm going to do a git status
by looking at this what branch am i
currently on like where am i at like if
we're thinking about all my code what
branch am i on
i am on
main beautiful so we can see that i'm on
main
what i can do
is i can create a new branch where i
make all my like risky stuff happen
so i'm going to create a branch called
risky
cool
and then i have to check out that branch
so i'm going to do git
check out
risky
and if i do a git status
you can see that i am on branch risky
cool
so what i want to do
is now that i am on
my risky branch
i want to go ahead and make some changes
i want to i want to create a risky file
something that i wouldn't want to do on
my main set of code something that like
i know i'm going to go deep down into a
rabbit hole
right i want to i want to try something
out if i don't like it i just want to be
able to get rid of it so let's go ahead
and
make a risky file so i'm going to go
ahead and touch
risky.html
beautiful so we can see that i have my
risky html file
i have my risky html file
and what i want to do is i want to go
ahead and
do my normal process
add all my changes commit all my changes
and then i want to go back to main so
i'm going to go ahead i've made my risky
changes i i have my risky html file
uh that was something that i didn't know
if it would break a bunch of stuff so
i'm just going to go ahead i did it i'm
going to do my get add
get add dot i'm going to do my git
commit
dash m
uh i made
some risky
changes
all right
and
i'm gonna do a git status
you can see that i'm on the branch risky
i made all these risky changes
i however
don't like the path that i've gone down
i wanted to go back to my original set
of code
right i want to go back to my original
set of code pay attention real quick
here
we can see right now i'm on the risky
branch
if i do a get
check out
main
what just happened
did you see it
we switched the main
and risky's no longer there
all that all those changes we were
worried about
all those changes that we are afraid of
it would break all of our code they're
going because i went back to maine
let's go ahead and uh
get checkout
frisky
as soon as i check back out risky all of
my code all the risky stuff i did on
that branch comes back and i can do it i
can use it however i want
i can go in i can make a bunch of
changes
what if
you had a bunch of different features
you were working on what if you had some
html features some javascript features
you could do them in different branches
if you wanted you could do the things
you were worried about in a branch if
you wanted and if you didn't like it you
just switch back to where you were
noise
that's pretty cool
i love coding me too this this is so
cool
you can you can you can you can now
write code risk free
right you can make a you can make a a
whole branch
you can go wild to your heart's content
and then if you don't like it it's as
simple as get
check out
maine you're back to where you started
all that risky business is gone
cool
can you combine branches heck yeah you
can so let's say you did enjoy the risky
business you eventually figured it out
you liked it you you thought it was a
good change and you wanted to be part of
your main code well you can just do a
git merge
we do get merge risky
right and there we go we can see risky
is back
you can see risky is back
if we do a git status
you can see that we are on main
where does it keep the files from the
branches we aren't using well what did i
do
with those files that were on the risky
branch before i jumped back to maine
what did i do
remember what i did
what did i do before i jumped back to
maine
i committed them so i made a save point
so that save point is saved where where
is that save point i made of risky saved
yeah i committed them so that that save
point gets saved in our git repository
yeah in our original folder that we
created so
even though it's on a different branch
it's still getting saved into that
folder
oh rossi i like to i like to merge stuff
back into maine maine's my main branch i
do all my risky stuff all my fun stuff
and then i merge it back into maine
cool but i hope that i know like a lot
of this the very first time you see it
is this is this is a lot right it's a
lot the first time you see it i'm so
happy some of you are like like mind
blown amazing right but don't feel
pressure on yourself to think that all
this terminal stuff is something that
should be clicking right now no come on
come back
re-watch the vod
follow along at your own pace the slides
i think these are some good slides
every command that i have used
i have put into the slides
step by step so you could
come back to this vod come back to these
slides and literally go slide by slide
and have all the exact commands
especially if you didn't get a chance to
watch the videos and do the homework
coming into this class where you
practice some of this beforehand but you
can come back to these slides you can
come back to this line by line and work
through it on your own cool and then
come back on sunday we're going to get
tons more practice in we're going to do
all this we're going to do rolling back
we're going to do all the fun stuff that
makes get a superpower
cool so we just used a branch we created
that risky branch we had our fun we
liked it we merged it i want to show you
one really cool thing and then we'll end
with all of our raffles
and that cool thing is github
we have all these save points
all these save points that we could roll
back to maybe a bunch of branches that
we want to swap back to but right now
they're all what
they're all where
yeah they're all local
they're all on my pc and
knock on wood
i got to get some salt to throw on my
shoulder if my
laptop was to die
all the stuff that i had saved would
poof and disappear
so the wonderful thing is that we can
take these get repositories these places
where we're saving our snapshots and we
can
have a remote backup
github enables us to take our snapshots
and put them in the cloud
so with github i can take all the
snapshots i've been writing
saving sorry and i can put them onto a
remote area
right so i can i can take all my local
snapshots and save them in the cloud
using github so it's the ver it's the
difference between a local repository
and a remote repository we can we can we
can have all these backups in the cloud
so
the cool thing about github
is that not only is it backups in the
cloud
which public and private repos
completely free
was that leon so that was that was simba
not only was not only do we get these
beautiful backups in the cloud
right but we also get a whole suite of
tools that make it easier to work with
developers because now developers can
take our snapshots they can download
them they can make their own changes in
their own branches and do all that fun
stuff and we can have these shared
repositories on github that make
collaborating with other engineers way
easier there's also a lot of other tools
that come with github
lots of really neat stuff like hosting
through github pages but they also
rolled out actions and so now whenever i
put my code on github we're going to
call it pushing whenever i push my code
to github i can also trigger a bunch of
other stuff to happen like have my stuff
host it somewhere it's really neat so
github at the beginning is where we're
going to use backups
but for now
if you don't already have a github
account make one after class so that way
you can push up the code that we did
today
to to to github have it saved in the
cloud uh you you can never say again
leon i didn't turn in homework because
my computer died well guess what every
time you made some code you should have
pushed it to github so all your code
should already be on
github cool so once you create a github
account
you can push your repositories up to
github so i'm going to show you how to
push your code or your git repo to the
cloud to github
all right so from github's website
we go to github
i'm just going to go to my profile here
confirm
cool
we go to github and i have this lovely
plus sign
i have this lovely plus sign
and when i click that plus sign
i can create a new
repository
and this new repository
right this new repository yeah look at
this us
young lee i need to get i need to get a
new headshot new repository
and when i click on new repository i can
name the repository so i'm going to name
that repository um
we
love
microsoft
so that we're going to name this
repository we love microsoft it'll be
public meaning that anyone can see it
i'm not going to do any of these extras
i'm just going to create the repository
and the beautiful thing about this is it
gives you all the commands that you
would need to run
to get your code
up here on github um so these are all
the commands that we could do if we
didn't already do them but we already
created our own git repository we could
add a readme file which is like a text
file that says um kind of like what's
happening in your repo
we'll get into reading these later but
it's just basically a text file that
comes along with the repo to explain
what's in the repo what's there i'm
actually going to share templates with
you for your readme so that your readmes
look really good
crisp whenever somebody's looking at
your github your github portfolio is
going to be popping i got you
uh you can see we already committed our
code we're already on main so a lot of
this stuff we've already done so the
only really two things we have to do
is add our remote
and what the remote means is that it's
where we're going to send our code
that's not local
local would be like on my actual laptop
remote is like all right where am i
sending this to remotely and i'm sending
it to this place on github so i'm going
to go down here i'm going to paste this
in
get remote add origin and then the
repository created we love microsoft
and then the last thing i have to do is
just push up my code so the very first
time you do this you need the get push u
origin main
every other push afterwards is just get
push
let's go ahead and paste in
hit enter
it'll take a second you can see i pushed
everything up
and
if i refresh this page
you should be able to see all the code
that we've worked on together today
right so now this code every single
thing we worked on is now stored
remotely
on github it was just a few seconds a
few clicks i know it's fast the first
time you see it right but you can come
back re-watch the vod at your own pace
do it your pace but it really is like
three or four clicks
to copy and paste and boom
all of our code is now backed up on
github
and we get all these goodies we can
share this with other we can share this
with other developers we can even go
ahead and look at all of our commits so
if i click this right here
here are all the commits that we made uh
so you see the original one that was all
my original files and folders you can
see all the stuff i added
if we go back we can see all right
here's where i made some risky changes
and here all the stuff i made you can
see all the commit messages that i made
right so here's the one that we did in
in in vim and then here's like all the
other ones that we did with the command
m so the beautiful thing here is we have
all of our code here
it's public
i could share it does it handle assets
yes you can you can upload your images
all your stuff here
right
for me i had my i had something called
an ssh key here so i didn't have to
enter my username and password
but if you haven't set up your ssh key
yet when you hit get push and you hit
enter it would ask you to put in like
username password um but i think that's
changed recently too
but whenever you enter a password in the
terminal
it's not going to actually type out your
password it's just going to look blank
right yeah it's going to look blank so
you might have to do like an extra step
to get a token set up or things like
that i'll share a file after class but
once you have that set up it's just as
easy as i showed
yeah
cool
all right so the other the last thing i
want to show you
is that all of our code
all right
all of our code right yeah github now
needs a token yep um now all of our code
is on here right
if i want to host it
it's only one more step you ready
i'm going to create a new branch called
gh
pages
and i'm going to go ahead and click
create branch gh pages
all right so now i've created a branch
called gh pages
and so now
if i go to leon noel dot dot leonuel
dot github
dot io slash we
love
microsoft
and i go to my index.html
it's going to take a second for it to to
load like it's going to take us it takes
like takes like i don't know like
20-ish seconds or so
for it to get there
um but after you wait those like 20
seconds or so you'll see that um
you'll see that it'll have it'll load
our actual html file that we just typed
in it takes a little while for it to
like upload that's why but if we give
this a few seconds and then come back it
it would work so
we go ahead we love microsoft we have
our index.html that was the name of the
repo right
we love microsoft yep so now we have our
gh pages we give it a few seconds and
then once it once it's there we it's
hosted our code is completely hosted for
free
it's uh we don't have to do anything
else we could share that url with anyone
we wanted to share it with and it would
just it would just work
so we'll wait like 20 seconds or so
we'll come back and show it but yeah the
idea is that everything is hosted now
that's pretty dope
that's pretty dope so not only do we
have
the ability to make save points
now we have the ability to like create
branches to do risky stuff
we can take all of our save points and
put them on
github so we can share them with others
so that we can have backups in the cloud
of all of our code
we can
have a whole suite of tools that makes
it easier to work with other developers
as we're working on our code we get free
hosting
all of our html css jobs all of our
static files are hosted
right
it's completely free how often should i
push save commit as often as possible
i do it quite frequently every major
thing that i work on every feature
whenever i'm like gonna go take a break
i push it
there's really no downside to pushing
too often and you get all these other
goodies get all this other cool stuff
and you can see our site is fully hosted
so
thank you microsoft azure for
sponsoring this class
uh for helping us unlock the power of
git and github uh for helping us
entry level engineers get free places to
host our code
private repositories are completely free
what
look we could share this link in chat
and it would work that's so cool to me
this is the coolest stuff ever
cool
already folks that's that's the whole
kit in caboodle let's uh let's come back
and
we talked through github we talked about
how to host our repos i think it's time
to end with some raffles um but your
homework if you haven't tried it yet is
now that we know a little bit about git
come back on sunday we're going to get
more practice in the terminal we're
going to do more with branches we're
going to do more rolling back to our
save points right we are going to get
more practice on sunday but between now
and sunday i need you to do some
homework
if you haven't yet already you can click
this link
and when you click this link
you'll be prompted to give microsoft
your email give them your email come on
they give us so much swag and cool stuff
uh and then you'll see two
two
courses i want you to do the intro to
github course
right
the the intro to github course is great
because it shows you all the extra
features that we haven't been able to
touch on yet in just this class that
we're going to be using going forward so
i'm expecting you to get through that
course before next tuesday ideally
sunday because we're going to talk a lot
about all those extra features but
starting next tuesday we're going to use
a lot of those features going forward
and so make sure you do the intro to get
helps you understand all the cool stuff
that like once your code is on on github
what can you do with it so that's the
link you need the link it's it'll be in
the follow up on discord after this
class it's just the aka dot ms learn
with leon it'll take you to the
intro to github course it's a phenomenal
course it'll help you learn all the cool
stuff that you need to learn for github
and then we're going to start using that
next week
all right let's end with some raffles
we have
we have let's see one two three
we have two more
uh microsoft raffles two more learn with
leon raffles and then we're gonna raffle
off the laptop so let's go ahead and
start our first raffle here one second
all right the microsoft raffle is open
exclamation point raffle let's get in
here
huge shout out to microsoft azure thank
you so much for sponsoring this class
thank you for continuing to sponsor 100
devs thank you for making your tools
free for entry level engineers to use it
really does help a lot
all right let's put um
another 20 seconds on this timer let's
do 15 because it's been running for a
little while
call 15 more seconds and then i will
close it up
we'll do it anyone outside the us we'll
do another microsoft we'll do an outs
we'll do outside the us and then we'll
do the laptop
mr clutch hey thank you for the posture
check
garland key corey lr thank you for the
gift it subs
these clouds hey thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
all right let's go ahead and close this
one
we're gonna pick the winner three two
the ned13 bened13 congratulations you
got a microsoft
we got a microsoft
swag pack coming your way
let's go ahead and start a raffle for
folks outside of the us this is for
outside the us
open now go ahead and
get in
actually hold on it might not be open
yet
one second
i asked you to do it again
i'm gonna try it again oh no it's open
it's open uh i didn't complete the last
one sorry all right that one's completed
go ahead and do type uh expedition point
raffle again if you're outside the us it
wasn't open
all right
get in here
another 15 seconds on the board there
then we'll do one more microsoft one
more outside the us and then we'll call
it
all right gonna close this one
bo's gonna pick the winner for the learn
with leon swag
xox siren xox siren congratulations on
the learn with leon swag
i'm gonna grab that we're gonna open one
more microsoft
raffle
you're inside the us go ahead and get in
here exclamation point raffle
this is our last microsoft swag of the
evening
get in here
15 more seconds on the board
we'll be a little bit of fun learning
some git and github i know it can be
tricky the first couple times you see it
but come back on thursday uh sorry come
back on on sunday we'll go over it again
and then tuesday thursday we're going to
keep working on it too so
lots of fun with apis on tuesday
reminder tomorrow the best week ever
continues we have our a wonderful first
friday with friends we'll announce the
special guest soon their amazing
contributors community really excited to
have them for the first friday with
friends
saturday we're taking over our place on
reddit
sunday we're back for office hours
monday we're going to do a little bit of
a mentor monday and some the portfolio
resume review and then tuesday we're
back with the last day of the best week
ever tons of surprises really excited
all right let's close this one
closing the entries
picking a winner
valve storm one hey valve storm one
congratulations on winning the last
microsoft swag of the evening we got one
more to go for folks outside the us and
then we're doing the laptop folks
all right so this is for folks outside
the us exclamation point raffle it's
open get in there
and then we will do the laptop
and what a beautiful laptop it is folks
let's pull that back up
look at this surface laptop go it's so
beautiful
oh
so sleek so lightweight
ugh
log in fast
love it
love it love it love it
alrighty let's close this last
outside the us raffle
i'm gonna pick the winner
three two
one
alrighty congrats x140
q41
x140 q41 congratulations on that learn
with leon swag
everyone will be getting whispers from
me this weekend so keep an eye on your
twitch whispers we'll get everything set
up to get the swag coming your
way
uh we're gonna open up the last one this
evening this is for a new surface laptop
go
so sleek so beautiful
let's go ahead and get that one open one
second
alrighty the the the name of this
giveaway is laptop baby
let's go ahead and start it get in here
this is open to anyone i'll send this
sucker anywhere so go ahead exclamation
point raffle open the every single
person
let's put a minute on the clock
minute on the clock
get in get in get in
alrighty
get in here
30 seconds left
alrighty folks we'll do this last raffle
and then we're going to raid and do the
last raffle and then we're going to raid
we're going to go over to hiccup
interactive we haven't been there in a
little while they're working on a
spawn randomization counter and how
awesome is that because we were working
on randomization for the rock paper
scissors
i think this would be a good raid uh
let's go ahead and this is for the
laptop folks let's go ahead and close
the entries once again thank you all for
being here thank you microsoft azure for
sponsoring this stream and let's go and
pick this winner remember we're gonna
have one more
laptop on tuesday and so if you want to
be part of that raffle on tuesday make
sure you do the homework you have to
have done the homework you want to enter
into that raffle on tuesday for another
surface laptop go all right let's pick
it then we're going to raid
alrighty the the the
the lovely
the lovely entries are closed we're
going to pick a winner three two one
all right thundering light you are now
the proud owner of a surface laptop go
under in light congratulations
on your new laptop beautiful
surface laptop go
alright
folks let's go ahead and cue up the raid
remember you want those sweet sweet
channel points
let's spread some love and positivity
you haven't given them a follow before
give them a follow
let them know where you came from
we're gonna skew it up
hope you had some fun
hope you're enjoying the best week ever
we'll do the pokemon cards and some
other raffles on tuesday tuesday's gonna
be the best stream for the best week
ever uh so we'll get all the extra
special raffles and stuff like that
we're we're a little over time we're 15
minutes over so we'll be respectful
people's time but tuesday we'll get to
everything i hope you had a wonderful
time once again thank you microsoft
azure we appreciate you everybody see
you all tomorrow or friday with friends
if you can make it if not i'll see you
saturday if not i'll see you sunday if
not i'll see you monday if not i'll see
you tuesday let's raid
peace youtube